you know you know it's funny all day
later tell me now three-two-one what's
funny I was going to tell you a funny
story about your address but it would be
it wouldn't be funny for you we'll talk
later about that you and I we share
African ancestry yeah yeah I was shocked
yeah I'm 1.6% alright yeah see I have
more I have more credential in that
department
you're two percent right yeah I know and
it's it's funny because you know you
sort of have your the story in your
family kind of where he came from
everything mates and I always knew I was
25 percent you know Italian and I knew
that my family came from Sicily in fact
the the the Rinella z' that came from
Sicily all seem to become kind of
established and in the produce world my
dad was brought up in the south side of
Chicago I'm 44 years old okay so think
about that for a minute my dad was
brought in south side of Chicago and he
was raised by his grandfather who was
Sicilian and come from Sicily his
grandfather delivered produce with a
horse and cart whoa in Chicago so to
have lived through that like to be
brought up in a house where a guy like
leaves in the morning and a horse and
cart to deliver produce and then to be
alive like to fight in World War two to
be through the atomic era the advent of
the Internet right but I always knew
that we had Sicilians when I did the
genetic test want some of those at some
point in time one of those Sicilians
must have shot southward and crossed the
Mediterranean and like had a hook up
down there or something well that was
the history of Sicily in the first place
yeah Sicily just being Sicilian in the
first place there were so many people
that were impregnated by the Moors and
by various people of West Africa and
North Africa yeah yeah I should have
probably like always assumed but it just
I hadn't thought about it
another thing I was reading about this
stuff and you might know more about it
than I do is that when you do those
tasks there's missing parts you know it
does it like it captures what's there
but there could be a lot there that's
not captured mmm just in the way that
chromosomes are you know inherited and
passed down like it's not it's an
incomplete picture right right there
could be influences there could there
could be in your in it doesn't create a
full picture of your lineage there could
be lineages that are there that aren't
represented in your particular makeup
how so like what do you mean you know I
hate to right off the bat get into
something that I can't speak about any
level of expertise I was just reading a
piece and the piece I was reading had to
do it was kind of a dissection of like
what happened with Elizabeth Warren when
she claimed we've been going off about
that on the podcast and I'm like a
hundred times more African than she is
Native American yeah well that's what I
found I'm ten times more whatever but
there's a piece about it was it was a
piece in The Times explaining like how
to make sense of now that everyone's
doing these tests like how to think
about it make sense these tests but but
my understanding of it is that you could
have a lot of ancestry that just isn't
captured in your genetic code in the way
that would be detected through the
testing I mean there could be ancestors
it for what because you're inheriting
half you know you're handing chromosomes
from each parent and somehow you could
have it could be an incomplete picture
you could have ancestors that had come
from mother you know whatever these
tests break out the world and do a
hundred or some odd regions or zones
that there could be people from those
zones who are in your lineage that are
not captured in your personal that are
not captured in your genetic code that
so bizarre you would think it all be in
there so that's just an incomplete
measuring tool is that what it is or is
it just actually not in there I don't
know you're gonna have to have a dude on
yeah I'll listen you need to have a dude
on understands and it's I feel like I'm
off on a bad start here around
how much Neanderthal did it say yeah
less than normal really less than
average was the the number like it said
it gives you did 23andme right yeah I
can't remember okay I came here I just
remember it was less than average and
you know and those things like I refined
about how many people do them you know
but it was less than average which
bummed me out but I'm like this Harry is
like a 13 year old like Norwegian girl
you know I've insults surprise shocking
didn't surprise me too much I was
wishing to have a little more of that
floating around in me it's a bizarre
heritage you know the idea that there
was a different type of human that bred
with Homo sapiens and that there's like
little bits and pieces of it floating
around in people yeah and people discuss
them people discuss let's have an
argument there day where they sane and
or tall or Neanderthal and everyone
grows up saying the and earth all it's
one of those things you're supposed to
switch once you realize how you're
supposed to do it right Neanderthal but
I just can't get comfortable with it I
go back and forth there's a lot of words
that like that word I know you're
supposed to do it but I can't get
comfortable with it cuz I feel like it
makes you sound pretentious it does it's
like rolling your R's and certain
Spanish words but we have this idea that
the we had this idea that Neanderthals
as unsuccessful right right they're
these brutish thugs that died out but
they had a six hundred thousand year run
yeah in Europe alone six hundred
thousand years longer run than Homo
sapiens have actually existed yeah yeah
so whatever I don't know that we're
gonna hit like I don't know that we're
gonna match up and have that run well
we'll probably have a twenty three in me
for whatever the fuck is after us things
look somebody back then fucked a human
like oh one of those crazy war monger
you can rapists thieving humans it died
out turns out they didn't totally die
out overrun with emotions and lies and
they someone someone of a superior race
infiltrated the humans and banged one of
them yeah it's it's it's funny to look
at that that understanding of those that
understanding of those people um an end
it to have the site to picture in your
mind's eye even though you can't picture
it like what was looked like when they
were hooking up
so one all right you know like
anatomically and kind of behaviorally
modern humans were hooking up with
Neanderthals was that with it was how is
it perceived by their peers I bet the
people that we think of as people back
then like you know George the animal
Steele is no Georgie animal Steele is a
very famous pro wrestler from back in
the day and I thought you're gonna say
it was a paleontologist or
anthropologists or a slur
he's arrest pro wrestler very famous guy
who could be a fucking caveman like
legitimately could be a caveman yeah see
if you got a good image of them now this
is what I think when I think of people
now give me a full-body one there you go
oh when I think of people he's hanging
on to some Homo sapiens Homo sapiens
from you know 200 thousand years ago I
think a George the animal Steele I think
there was something like that so the
idea of George fucking in neanderthal
chick not that far off I think our ideas
like that like dan Rather would be out
there banging some monkey lady I just
don't think I don't think that's the
case look at George's body i mean jesus
fucking christ
he's got the hairiest shoulders i've
ever seen in a man he's still alive I do
not know I don't believe he is I hope
he's not listening right now I don't
believe he is he's a legend legend in
the world of the Pro Wrestling so it's
gonna take more than this to hurt his
feelings that guy don't give a fuck yeah
he's a legend but uh when I was in a kid
in high school oh he's old so far yeah
he's uh well those guys they all that's
a hard way to make a living man so he
died he died at age 79 now he had a good
run
yeah that's a good run for for those
guys that's a fucking hard way to make a
living but we were talked about the the
idea of Neanderthals is like having a
confrontational hunting style no no like
we have because when when when
anthropologist look at the the skeletal
remains of Neanderthals they see this
sort of suite of this pattern of
injuries on them
and a researcher was looking at the
types of fractures that they have on
their bones and where the fractures
occurred and the brakes and like cracks
and their skulls he was looking at all
this and wound up working with a doctor
who had a lot of exposure to rodeo
riders bull riders and the doctor was
was observing the way in which that
suite of injuries was very familiar to
him from rodeo riders the types of
breaks and the location of breaks and
this guy has this idea that they had a
like a very confrontational hunting
style that they were like mixing it up
with big animals and another thing they
found is that when you're looking at
skeletal remains from early people you
still see that separation in the sexes
right that the male's would suffer
injuries
at with a greater prevalence than
females but with the Neanderthals it
seems like they didn't have the sort of
like duplicity of roles mmm so many of
the females the females have the same
prevalence of these types of injuries
whoa and so maybe they didn't have that
the they didn't share that division of
labor where the females as large as the
males yeah I don't know the answer to
that so we know that they had stone
tools right the crude stone tools yeah
but we don't know whether or not they
had anything that could launch them like
they didn't have did they would do we
know if they had Spears I don't believe
that they've found they had addle addle
right and I don't know if they were
hafting materials but they were doing
they were doing art and I think there's
a little bit of a debate about whether
they're doing representational art but
they were doing art they were doing they
were probably making jewelry and is that
these are all things that as as we kind
of like wake up to what these people
were really like and it paints like a
more complicated picture there's even
this theory and I don't know if this
held me water how long it was
fashionable for but you had this really
long history of extremely long history
of hundreds of thousands years of
Neanderthal you know occupation in
Europe and then it seemed to be that I
remember someone
putting forth this idea that it seemed
to be that there was this flourishing of
advancement that was contemporaneous
with the arrival of our own ancestors in
Europe as though they were being exposed
to or seeing art and seeing jewelry and
mimicking this from these new invaders
that were coming in but I don't know
where that idea sits right now I don't
know if it's been dispelled because of
other discoveries remember thing that
was an interesting idea that they would
it kind of paints this really sad
picture right that they would be sort of
in the autumn you know of their
existence and here's he's adorned people
showing up with these amazing toolkits
and all these abilities and kind of
struggling to start to catch up you know
it'd be like the country bumpkin you
know going to the big city and yeah well
there was also this idea I think up
until very recently that Neanderthals
were not as violent as humans as homo
sapiens but now there was an article
that was published just a couple of days
ago that new evidence shows that
Neanderthals like internee and tall
violence between each other it was just
as bad as homo sapiens yeah and find
that in evidence of cannibalism oh yeah
there was a lot of that right scraping
of inside the skulls indicative of tools
Oh ad blocker got busted they get this
every time with the fucking ad blocker
yeah was the saying humans are just as
violent as Neanderthals are you familiar
with the writer John mu alum know you'd
like his stuff yeah he wrote a really
beautiful piece about he wrote a really
beautiful piece about Neanderthals not
long ago okay I fucked it up the what
they're saying is that modern humans
were just as prone to violence as
Neanderthals I don't have a problem I
think I'm conflating this with something
else that I read about inter inter
species violence Neanderthal on
Neanderthal violence the other things
weird about them is they had bigger
brains in us their bigger brains and
they would be like five seven and weight
200 pounds just jacked
just a little gorilla thing you know
it'd be great to see it there's a really
dumb theory that was being bounced
around
a few years ago it was really hilarious
about how we wiped out we assumed
Neanderthals because you don't have a
soft tissue samples we assume that
Neanderthals looked similar in humans
but because of the very different shape
of their skull this guy had instead of
giving them European looking white skin
turn them into a gorilla turn them into
a giant muscle-bound gorilla that preyed
on people and this was like I believe
this guy was and actually is actually
was a professor and it seemed almost
like a goof at first you remember this
champion we pulled this up a few times
the like killer Neanderthal Theory I
think he called it but yeah it was he
had drawn this thing black like a
gorilla with like giant muscles all over
the place and these big crazy eyes and
that painting Neanderthals as a predator
of humans and that's why we wiped him
out yeah yeah but my limitations as see
I wasn't saying my limitations as an
anthropologist I'm certainly not an
anthropologist at all just a dude who's
interested in it but one of my
limitations is I'll hear theories
floated okay and I don't follow them
long enough to see which ones have any
traction right I'll just read about them
and and I don't I don't take it as
gospel but I'll read about it and I'll
be like that's interesting and it was
sort of like shaped my understanding of
it but then I don't keep track of it
like I try to really follow the story of
like the peopling of the Americas so
when it comes to the human history of
the Western Hemisphere I sort of follow
and like ideas will get floated and I'll
track the idea to see where it lands in
terms of scholarly consensus but another
stuff like with with Neanderthals I'm
always a sucker for a Neanderthal story
but I don't track what ideas that float
up are just very quickly denounced as
being complete rubbish hmm yeah it's a
weird one you know it's a it's it takes
time to it takes time to follow this
stuff go go to that other picture that's
what it is them them and and us yeah but
look at him as some of his images look
at that image that he has on the cover
of the book like those the idea there's
some way better ones there's some way
better images what they drew
of full-body ones they had is it in the
article this was a link to the special
website from a different article just go
go to that and then go to images because
there was some really bizarre fucking
yeah there is upper left-hand corner
this is what this guy yeah laughing
whatever he's got going on that thing is
not making art you know think so no he's
making meat come on yeah yeah it's
pretty preposterous but near toasting
that fangs like that no did they know
but it's out he's he morphing and
neanderthal into a gorilla's that was
trying to do down here oh that's a ha
okay monkey gorilla and the end at all
but yeah but the like oh it's got it
snarling with its fucking vegetable
eatin teeth anyway it's it's uh and then
there's the do we even know what those
Deneuve Ian's just how do you say that
word the one from Russia yeah they don't
have any idea what they look like right
no I don't like some pinky bones and
shit you know they have that that one's
not that one I don't know I mean your
cookbook is fucking fantastic it's
really good yeah yeah you put a lot of
goddamn work into that thing we started
collecting images four years ago you
could tell it's really good okay I
didn't want it to look like um what was
it boring you Tom out in the NFL no I'm
out of stuff to say about him anyway no
I go on for days that's the problem
things were not quite sure about with I
watched I might get back to the coke but
real quick but you know what's funny is
uh how many if I don't know this but how
many people in the wildlife world listen
to your show and get angry I hear about
it because I'm like a conduit I'm like a
tell Joe that that's not how it works
I'm like a conduit where I'm oftentimes
getting frantic text messages as though
I would be able to jump in and you know
clarify like how a porcupine quill work
sir
yeah it's really funny how many people I
hear from what uh well I can tell you I
know like when you're on the subject of
wildlife if there's marijuana in the
room we got a real issue that's not what
antlers are for he should really know Oh
No who knows what antlers are for other
than well they're from two things right
for they're for fighting and sexual
selection right yeah two things that
definitely makes sense yeah yeah we've
had like a sexual display
we got a bull in Utah this this year and
when we're butchering it one of the hind
quarters had been punctured by an antler
yeah and it got infected and when we cut
into the hind quarter just this bucket
of pus yeah came out I mean it was
fucking nasty we thought it was piss at
first like someone had actually
punctured the bladder and then we
realized when we got deep into it that
there was this giant ass and he had been
asked like literally right in the flank
yeah and it was just so fucking nasty
you find really high-pressure pus
pockets and like in animals yeah all
over his body had holes holes in his
ribs he had big one in his face he'd
been jacked in the face
I got a Sika deer last year who had lost
his eye completely gone I mean like his
eyeball had been punctured and people
are asking me well no one you got him
but I was like nah I was good I was
facing me on his line of approach
anybody didn't know where you were his
left perception his left eye was facing
me but yet with the cookbook so we
started gathering pictures up for it
years ago
because I wanted to have this like
really complete idea of how to process
everything so like the book includes
everything from how to process a
bullfrog you know to a deer to a pig to
mahi-mahi and a problem.i running when
I've done books is I never wind up
needing I never wind up needing like
padam in the end I always mind of having
like very painful cuts yeah you know
when I did my book my book American
Buffalo I member I had to lose a hundred
pages which was
hard to do when we did the complete
guide to hunting butchering cooking wild
game it came out at 700 pages do you
ever think of going back and putting
those 100 pages back in door do you
think it made sense to remove no in
hindsight it had to happen it had to
happen that's it in terms like the
narrative stuff I've written that's the
you know the the narrative nonfiction
I've written that's my favorite thing
that I've done and it had to happen it
was painful and we did them without did
those guide book the guide book series
that came in 700 pages and my publisher
was my publisher was like you know just
don't really make 700 page books and so
that's like when I'm doing the volume 1
and volume 2 because I didn't want to
get rid of any but then in doing this
this cookbook the mediator fish-and-game
cookbook is what it's called and putting
this together I think early on we
started to get a little bit kind of
running a little bit wild about what was
gonna fit but then caught it earlier but
that was the first thing we did it
started collecting the pictures because
I think a lot of times you look at a
book an illustrated book and it kind of
smells like a photoshoot you know I'm
saying yeah yeah where you can tell that
they get they sort of how they got the
images and I didn't want to feel like
that I wanted to sort of feel like
really representative of like so many
different places and different
experiences that are captured in here
and so we just started filming these
processed shots of how to walk stuff
through like everything you know how to
like turn things how to take an animal
and make it into a variety of usable
ingredients and collecting all those
took a long time and then and then
actually like assembling and putting
putting it together was more systematic
once we had that underway but I think
it's I think it like it's cool-looking
no you know no it's great like the book
in the end where it's kind of like half
could almost pass as a coffee table book
I agree yeah no really could and I think
it's a really valuable resource for
people that hunt because it's just I
mean there's only so many different ways
you can cook backstraps
right there's so many different ways you
can put ground venison into spaghetti
sauce you know yeah you're giving people
such a wide variety of things too
including your original books as well
a wide variety of things - you know - to
cook and ways to cook them but it's one
of the things I really enjoyed about
your show you know and still do but now
that it's on Netflix actually I enjoy it
even more but that you do a lot of
cooking on your show yeah that's that's
very rare in the hunting world you know
you see these hunting shows they're very
one-dimensional you see someone looking
for the animal and then they finally get
it and yeah everybody's happy the end
but you you spend a great deal of time
break it down animals and cooking a
bunch of different things including like
marrow and shanks and unusual
preparations I think that's really
important yeah that's that's something
that was that was always there for me
growing up and hunting fishing very
complicated and you do them for a bunch
of reasons I think that people in
explaining hunting to audiences or
explaining to people who are uninitiated
uninformed about it may be adversarial
toward it you sort of you wind up
grabbing these things that you want up
grabbing these things that um that you
think will resonate with them right I
have a friend Greg blask of it she even
worked on this research piece of taking
justifications for hunting and finding
test subjects who are skeptical of
hunting in explaining various
justifications to them and seeing which
ones of those they find to be most
impactful so he's actually done research
around when you take this great like
these this broad spectrum of reasons
people do this you know and everyone has
many of them that's part of their story
right and and you you run them by people
he sees these ones that they they really
resonate and which ones kind of moved
the needle and their perception of it
and it's a little bit surprising there's
some there's some surprises in there of
ones that you think would be like really
impactful but in fact are not impactful
at all if people don't care about like
what
well population control people don't
care people I think that people don't
the kind of people you're talking about
who are
largely unfamiliar with it but they're
looking at it from the outside and
they're skeptical of it they have a
heart they don't buy it I don't think
that they're afraid of deer generally
but people who live in high population
areas like I did a gig once in western
Massachusetts well yeah it was in
Western Massachusetts and I had a drive
I was coming from New York and how to
drive through the most deer infested
place I've ever been to in my life
it is completely insane like when you
drive it on the highway you have to go
2530 miles an hour
things are just jumping in front of your
car every 15 20 seconds it was fucking
nuts man
and I would would I took this side road
down to get to wherever the gig was you
know and I'm just watching these animals
jump in front of a car like left and
right and I'm like these people that
live here these things are a goddamn
nuisance like if this everyday reality
and you asked those people you said hey
what do you think about deer population
control we need to hunt to keep the
population down they'll be like fuck
yeah you do yeah I'm sure yeah I'm sure
that there are like quite a lot of
people who live in some of these areas
that have a great abundance of deer that
feel that way but a population yeah when
he was looking at it with just general
population thing and it was full stop -
he didn't get he didn't give a lot of he
didn't go in and give case scenarios and
examples right it's just a question that
you ask and people it didn't like
immediately click of people another
thing that didn't immediately click with
people but it's extremely important to
me is issues around heritage and legacy
okay
so meaning that my maternal grandfather
my paternal grandfather you were hunters
my father was a hunter I was brought up
hunting um to a non hunter doesn't
matter your grandparents and parents
could have been involved in all kinds of
bad shit I don't think that that means
you need to continue doing bad shit
right um one that's very obvious is
people understand people understand and
respect the idea of food like your
general population to look and respect
the idea of food now to back up what I
was getting at about you mentioned like
that being a big elm on the show
it almost winds up being that
it was like I was like fortunate or
lucky or whatever that early in my
career I started focusing on talking
about that aspect of it but it wasn't
something I just made up out of nowhere
because it was a huge part of growing up
where for whatever reason I haven't be
raised by a dad who was just really
interested in cooking stuff and sharing
with people you know and if he if you're
driving down the road in June and you
see a snapping turtle laying eggs on the
side of the road it's come up out of a
swamp and you needed to find some sandy
ground and he finds it on the edge of a
dirt road and there it is laying eggs on
the side of the dirt road we were eating
that turtle right in everything we ate
you know all kinds of fish and we had a
lot of things that other people weren't
interested in we could go out and bring
back our dad bullfrogs you would love if
we went out and got him frogs we take
our bows out at night using flashlights
which unbeknownst to me was illegal and
remains illegal in the state where I was
brought up even for frog to use
artificial light for frogs yeah I had no
I do when I found that out later
no idea Wow um that you weren't supposed
to do that we would do it and we'd come
in and bring them and it was like a big
thing right to bring our dad the frog
legs and you to cook them it he would
cook and eat anything and then he would
do stuff where we would catch salmon
when the salmon were running the rivers
in October and he would have people over
and we would have a salmon boil you know
so I was raised around that stuff of
likes of celebrating wild game having to
be very social having it be a way to
connect salmon boil yeah boiled fish so
you take your little use you're
literally cubing up salmon and pearl
onions and little baby potatoes I'll
show you making like a stew it's a fish
boil and then you drain it off and you
have drawn butter and you drown all that
shit and drown butter
it's good sounds good yeah it doesn't
settle do fish boils people do fish
boils was not normal to do a salmon boil
it seems like it's such a flavorful fish
you would lose some of that in the broth
yeah for sure
but it's like when you it's like when
you have the pearl onions and a little
baby potatoes and cubed up and you drown
all that shit and butter it's just like
a thing people so the taste is really
good but it's not necessarily the taste
of Sam
it isn't what if you went to great if
you went to the Pacific Northwest and
asked like a bunch of great chefs in the
Pacific Northwest to list their five
favorite salmon preparations boiling
them in a pot of water isn't it beyond
is gonna make their list yeah but he
look we would do that you know and it
would be a thing and you'd invite people
over to do it so I kind of early not
like early on with all the things I
enjoyed about hunting like the food
aspect was big for me and really
informed all of the sort of
conversations that I've had around it
since and so then in doing his show
about hunting wasn't something that was
gonna it wasn't something that was gonna
lean out but in all fairness when I was
growing up I did a lot of fur trapping
too and trap muskrat beaver make all
kinds of stuff and um it was doing that
to sell the to sell the furs and I would
use up some of the meat I would use some
of the meat for bait I'd sometimes sell
meat to dog sled racers when did you
realize that beaver were delicious
not to laughter I think I know I the
first one when I was in the first one I
ever ate I was in Community College I
still tell people about the beaver that
you cooked for us in Wisconsin and how
good it is and they look at you sideways
and Mike I'm telling you man it was like
the most delicious pot roast I've ever
had was fantastic yeah it was really
good there's even stories about early on
with the when early explorers are in
this country they had a difficult time
getting fish sometimes and beaver were
approved for the Lenten meal because
they were aquatic Wow so on Fridays when
you had to have like when you're
supposed to have your meat free day you
were allowed to eat beaver meat because
they were a water animal it was a very
popular food item you followed I'm
saying yeah yeah yeah no I get it
the first what the first ones we ate I
had started reading about I'd always
read narratives stories about the
mountain men meaning like when I say
mountain like a very specific thing like
a you know a rocky mountain beaver
trapper who was sandwiched between who's
sandwiched in time between the end of
the
in Clark expedition and the collapse of
the beaver market in the 1840s so like
so very like finite period of time was
what a mountain man was explained to
people how big the beaver market is
because this is gonna blow people's
minds well America's first you know
Astor John Jacob Astor like the beaver
market made America's first millionaires
his fortunes came from being a beaver
trader the richest man in the country
their money came from beavers yeah and
he was in on the business end of it he
wasn't in on the trappin end of it right
he was in on the half of the fur
companies yeah the big fur companies
well it looked like when we bought think
about like this how big it was for us to
do the Louisiana Purchase and to buy
that chunk of land when Lewis and Clark
came out part of their mandate was to
suss out the potential for the trade and
beaver hides
it'd be like buying some night bundle
bought oil and gas all right you know no
it can we justify this through oil and
gas they're looking to justify it
through trade and beaver hides now also
there was also language about that they
might find out about whether worldly
mammoths were existing out there as well
so there's like some confusion about
what was going on
wow they really thought that wooly
mammoths were still of Jefferson was
interested in that stuff because he had
he had been to some areas he had some
familiarity and been to some areas with
these large bones and he was puzzled
about and he was wondering if this
wasn't some if it may be in fact was not
an extinct species but was somehow
living in the American West still how
hard is it to real historians like
people not historian popular historians
really love to make a big deal out of X
it's so weird
but it wasn't like hey let's buy the
let's do the Louisiana Purchase
transaction because of the possibility
of locating mammoths I think it was like
an idea that was floated around people
see it and they they people such as me
see it and perhaps overemphasize what it
meant but it was an idea that was out
there
the beaver trade stuff was certainly a
big factor another thing I was reading
about recently that just point out to to
your that you might think is interesting
is that we people have this idea of
Lewis and Clark going into this
unspoiled uncontacted landscape
I was recent reading to piece by a
historian who's talking about at the
time Lewis and Clark headed out into the
Great Plains there were Native Americans
living on the Great Plains who had been
to Europe and met the King of France and
returned back to the Great Plains Wow
what year they went out in the early
1800s so they're out in 1804 wow you got
a if you imagine the time from the time
in the 1500s when the Spanish right
we're poking around and come at Coronado
right coming up from Mexico into the
Great Plains cabeza de vaca being
shipwrecked wrong Gulf Coast and people
pushing up into these areas it was
hundreds of years prior like the
distance that separates imagine the
distance that separated Lewis and Clark
from the first Europeans who were doing
activities in and around the Great
Plains is like the distance and time
that separates us from Lewis and Clark
more so right yeah it's the distance and
time that separates us from the
Declaration of Independence it was like
a long history of people messing around
crazy however so yeah but think about
too like losing Clark we're encountering
people who had horses right right and
those were skin event yeah his horsemen
traded up so that just like a side note
this idea of eating beaver so I got from
reading about the mountain men I got
interested in the site because you'd
always see like anytime you read about
mountain men you're always gonna find
the part where the author talks about
how much mountain men like beaver tail
and the first people that tried eating
beaver tails around when I was in I was
in Community College at the time and my
brothers I remember stuck a beaver tail
in the oven for a while and cooked it
and they reported back to me that like
whatever it is they're talking about
isn't that like there must be some other
explanation didn't we eat beaver tail
yeah yeah we ate it in Wisconsin yeah we
have a read there's there's a hot
like pictures in an explanation of how
to prepare how to actually prepare
beavertail Mountain Man style in the
mediator fish-and-game cookbook it
wasn't bad
it was no bland it's just fat it's bad
so after that we started thinking that
when they say the mountain men like
beavertail we thought it must meant they
liked rump based like the hindquarters
so we started when we went I would catch
beavers I'd be careful when skinned them
to not get the castor the beavers have
two large glands on the inside of their
legs they're like talked in their what
looks like if you lay a beef around its
back talk to kind of on either side of
its of its like if it's a male like talk
to your side of its penis or either side
of its cloaca you'll you'll see a knot
cloaca but like vent you'll see these
these glands that are the size of if you
make like if you take your index finger
and your thumb and make a circle there's
like a gland on each side called a
castor gland there's an oil gland in
there they just use a perfume this still
has value today it's used for a wide
variety of things it smells beautiful if
you were walking on a stream bank and
you smell like a strange perfume smell
it's usually beaver castor Wow smells
great tastes like shit tastes like
you're eating like you rubbed roses or
something all over your food so start
figuring out like to to skin them and be
very careful not to get the castor on
your knife or get the castor on your
hands and then we would just take the
meat and put in crock pots with potatoes
and onions and stuff and just cook them
down in a crock pot so you could pick
them and it was like roast beef so when
I started eating that but I still then
later I realized that they read all
their accounts of how people are
prepared beaver tail and if you take the
tail like the scaly ass tail and it
really should be from a fall beaver
because the tail be twice as thick in
the fall than it is in the spring
they're emaciated in the spring take the
tail and just skewer it on a stick and
put it next to a fire where the skin
starts to bubble and boil away
appreciating you can just peel its skin
away and what's hiding under there is
the the best equivalent like the best
equivalent or point of comparison that I
can think of would be just it's like if
you had a really like imagine you're
eating a grass-fed steak right but still
has that
fatty gristle on it it's just made up of
that gristle like weird a lot people
would trim away from a steak and not eat
that's what's inside that beaver tail
but people eat the these individuals
that were doing this for fat starved
eating such lean meat all the time I
think they loved it because here's like
a chunk of fat yeah and they had ready
access to here catching them to make a
living and if you're just eating the
meat there's no fat on the meat and so
they would complement with just eating
the beaver tail fat and I'll often tell
people about and I even gave some to
there's like a culinary arts Institute
and I gave some chefs that stuff and
everyone that eats it points out that
it's not that it tastes so fantastic but
it is like really interesting to try and
eat it the fat from the tail and it's
like you got to put yourself in position
you probably ending this to where if
you're you know especially if you're out
hunting and eating you know like
freeze-dried food or not eating great
and you're just exerting yourself all
day all the time how you're what you
want to eat changes a lot yeah and you
the level of appetite you have is off
the charts yeah and so just like to eat
like a big slab of fat and be very
excited was appealing to p.m. yeah your
body starts craving things it absolutely
needs yeah that makes sense
makes sense in particularly we think
about these people that are hiking
across the west traveling massive
amounts of distance and you know
probably very physically strenuous yeah
dragging all their shit with them and
they get a cross some big-ass piece of
fat from a tail it's probably a huge
treat yeah and then our understanding of
people like we used to have this idea of
like especially of early Native
Americans is like they're like just
eating you know nothing but mammoth meat
and all the time like as our
understanding people grows you see like
how much they were utilizing plant
resources and probably had like pretty
plant rich diets but with the one with
the equestrian Bison hunters on the
Great Plains those guys were like they
weren't cultivating like at that aerial
like especially the area when Lewis and
Clark came in these people were not
cultivating crops a lot of the people
who had been farming along the
Mississippi Missouri Valley
once they got horses they just gave up
on that shit and just started roaming
landscape eating meat and the mountain
men certainly weren't doing that and
they were just eating like you're eating
meat 365 days out of the year and you
see that they really probably make up
for a lot of nutrient deficiencies
eat shit those organs your guy putting
the doll putting gall on your food gall
bladder squeezing taking the doll
putting squeezing the bile from gall
bladder on your food you did that once
yeah it's horrific yeah well they put a
9-volt battery on your tongue and you
think they were doing just because they
were just nutrient starved yeah it seems
like there's they they put a high
emphasis on eating just like all these
like just organ meats borne or milk from
milk from mammary glands really yeah cuz
you can't just eat that lean ass gamey
every day right you were talking to a
guy from Alaska what's that guy's name
buck load and Buck Bowden yeah on your
show and he was talking about you know
essentially he was subsistence hunting
it in certain stages yeah and you know
he ate nothing but moose
like he ate shot a moose and ain't
nothing but that moose for months and
picking Wolverine you need off the
skulls and said whoa yeah you know and
you you know so fucking modern-day human
who's alive right now talking about only
surviving on the leanest of lean meat
you know I had to be skinny as fuck when
it that was all over yeah and I would
mess with that guy he's tough as shit to
now yeah he lived life he lived life
that seems like he had parts of his life
that seemed like he was a hundred years
yeah could have occurred a hundred years
earlier he the episode of the podcast is
like you're a good man buck is that what
it's called
you're cool dude but cool dude back
which is what body-mind says to him in
the show he's a cool dude it's it's a
treat to get a chance to talk to a guy
that you think probably never even
fucking heard of a podcast and certainly
comes from a completely different era
yeah the reason he was living on had to
live off the land is an interesting
story where he was working for he was
just getting in the guiding world
Guiding moose hunters and they were
wanting to find some ways to be able to
hunt some very remote areas and they
hidden us the idea that they would just
bring horses in because if you don't
have landing strips and stuff is just
really hard to operate out of these
areas so they thought well if we can get
horses in there we'll have them in there
we'll hunt for the season then we'll
ride the horses out but getting the
horses in there was so difficult and
took far longer and the route they
wanted to use was impassable by the time
they got the horses in there they
realized that they're never gonna get
these horses back out of here and they
realized that someone needs to stay over
winter to take care of the horses and he
just volunteered to do it so he started
spending they would go in and hunt in
September and then he would just start
hanging out and just stay there to agree
to care for the horses until spring so
that's how he found himself living out
by himself and they would bring some
food in but it would be never enough and
he would be eating you know Wolverine
beaver moose whatever he could come up
with but he was just um he was just open
to it and didn't care you know and is
really comfortable with solitude when I
spend time with him he's very gracious
but um when he spent tyldum you see him
just engage in conversation but you see
a sort of weariness kick in where you're
talking to someone who's very
comfortable going months without human
interaction right so him talking to
people is like okay that's enough yeah
when we get the fuck out I don't say he
realized like when I've stayed at his
place his cabin he's got he's got a
remote cabin still him when I stayed
after he's kind of like well sort of
drift off and vanish for good spells at
I'm no sure even when he's even when
he's like entertaining you know and he
sells bowls like wooden bowls for a
living
well it's one of the things that he does
I had one in my home now it's a birch
but yeah it's like a you know it's a
salad bowl sort of like a growth on the
side of a birch tree that he cut off
with a chainsaw on hollow out yeah they
call him birch you know birch bark or
burl bowls yeah
you know I have a beautiful one and he
sells and they go into terrorist shops I
think it's a shame that they go in a
tourist shop yeah I think he should be
it should be all be direct-to-consumer
well from him why don't you hook it up
take zero point zero people on the case
okay some of your meat meat-eater folks
yeah he had a great many the lost in a
fire - yeah that was a sad story but
besides yeah so he still guides and um
does that and and and makes his uh you
know takes those barrels and makes bowls
out of them just talking to a guy like
that listening to you talk to a guy like
that is so fascinating because he lives
a life that I can barely comprehend
mmm just everything about it from and
just to think that well what he does is
almost impossible to comprehend now
think about Lewis and Clark making their
way across the country and not really
knowing what was out there yeah really
not knowing like guessing having some
you know people gave some reports this
is what we saw here this is what we saw
there they didn't even have a good
account of all the different animals no
they they had wandered lost and that's
the thing we were talking on this point
their days were talking about like what
people now you'll hear people say like
oh he's a real mountain man you know and
oftentimes when people hear that they
imagine this like old hermit yeah you
know who's like living in his cabin and
being a mountain man but if you think
about what the mountain men were they
were for the time the most well-traveled
people right and the least xenophobic
people right alive the equivalent today
to be a mountain man today the
equivalent would be I think you'd have
to go to Brazil and ascend the Amazon
and follow tributary after tributary and
get into like the borderlands around
Venezuela and then go in and despite the
language barrier you'd have to go in and
travel amongst and live amongst people
who tribes who had not had a lot of
outside contact but had a familiarity
had a familiar
ready with outside people's and you
would live their foods you eat their
foods and live with them and take their
ways that they dress themselves and
adopt it as your own the kind of guy
that would do that is not the kind of
guy we're talking about nowadays and we
talk about he's a real mountain man
right we're talking about reality show
people that people talk about now but
these people were like insatiably
curious explorers they're the people now
yeah the people that do like go to
really crazy war zones or like decided
to go back pack up in the Hindu Kush and
Afghanistan you know just to see what
happens yeah very different kinds of
people your episodes that you did what
we're where was that in with the the
most recent series where your bow
fishing with these people yeah down in
Guyana Guyana yeah that's a that's got
to be a trip how long were you down
there for oh you know long weeks a
couple weeks yeah yeah you know I mean
there's a lot of travel there's a lot of
like stuff needs to happen to get out on
the river but when you're around these
people and they're all walking around
barefoot and they're making cassava
which we talked about the other day that
it could easily kill you if you do it
wrong you know the water is all the
cyanide in it like you're you're about
as close as you can get to that kind of
environment right yeah what you're yeah
in the situation like that you're with
people who are very familiar with like
very familiar with the modern world like
a great awareness of it but like when
when the sort of rubber meets the road
of daily existence they're still really
connected to life patterns and and skill
sets that were that that their
grandparents used and still fishing like
a very similar ways right so where you
might have had when you were a boy
leaving if someone now is in their 30s
when they were a boy they probably used
a 12-pound handmade wooden paddle and
maybe now they have a different paddle
or maybe somehow they've come into you
know a plastic paddle
say and they use that for their boat or
they have a they still have a dugout
canoe but they also have an aluminum
boat so there's major differences but
just the general sort of approach and
the fact that you're deriving all of
your protein from the river and that you
hunt and fish
250 300 days a year in the places where
your ancestors died has done it you're
still you're still getting this like
really beautiful glimpse at how people
lived even though they've had enormous
changes in their own lifetime and
they're very much modern you know very
modern but you can still like glimpse it
more you don't I don't think you really
get that as much you don't get that as
much here you know hunting is ancestral
right there's this kind of continuation
that goes on but when Europeans came
here when Europeans came to the new
world they weren't coming in as hunters
right even to go look like Daniel
Boone's family Daniel Boone's family
came from England they didn't come here
as hunters because you couldn't like the
the peasantry you couldn't hunt there
they came here and learned hunting so
hunting in America for euro-americans
hunting in America is like an invention
it's a thing that people kind of got
learned and took from the Indians so it
doesn't have a it doesn't have that like
that deep deep thread they'd find with
indigenous communities where there's
this continuation that's going on for
forever unbroken but on this continent
unbroken for whatever 15 16 whatever the
fashionable number is thousands of years
right and so it's like our understanding
is just different because our like my
ancestors came here and like got into it
it wasn't it wasn't a cultural
continuation for them and then when you
look at like food and wild game an
interesting thing is my my use and
understanding of wild game is really
influenced by like contemporary food
right like
like restaurant food things that chefs
do like how do you take wild game and do
these like cool exciting modern
innovative kinds of things with with
wild game and cook it
yo talked it like a dude even the dude
like Bach or particularly people in you
know people in South America who have
who've hunted for more of a like a
subsistence literally subsistence
purposes their whole attitude is
different about it people like people in
South America will eat that like the the
CH Imani or the makuu she is like
they'll eat the same thing every day for
lunch every day boiled fish with a dried
pepper around it and then a grain made
from cassava boiled as well was he a
grain but like a dish made from cassava
why are they boiling it why don't they
just grill it they well they they
sometimes do but for lunch it's like you
take leftover it you might you probably
like smoked with it but where they were
called BBQ fish where you make a big
rack you have a fire make a big rack
high above it kicks off a bunch of smoke
you split fish salt Amman lamb on that
rack and smoke them dry them out and
then you take that fish and break it
apart and pour river water over cassava
and then put fish in there with river
water and kind of stir it up or you just
take fish and throw it in a pot and boil
it and put that on there but to eat that
same thing every day then you come and
talk about there's no recipe right
there's no like written preparation
right and then you come and talk about
like wild game cooking as I understand
it where you make a book and it's got a
hundred different recipes in in all
these ways to approach stuff it's just
like it's it's very particular to us
like other people aren't really
perceiving it that way like they don't
use wild game and recipes they have like
oh there's like here's how you cook this
and we don't really deviate from cooking
this way or it's like fish on a rack
over to fire or fish in the pot of water
and very limited diet does it weird you
out when you're around people like that
because you have options right you can
you can eat any way you like you can go
to a restaurant you get a burger from
fast food you know choose to go hunting
with these people it's literally how
they survive yeah and there's no option
there's no options and they've been
doing it that way forever like is it do
you feel like a weird recreational sort
of person around them like is it does it
feel strange
that's a great question man no there's
definitely there's definitely an envious
part to how like to live that
deliberately like I'm a little bit
envious of it but really the thing that
I feel most is I feel more than
separated I tend to feel more of the
areas in which I'd be like aligned hmm
you know right where I like appreciate
the perspective and I appreciate the
skillset but never feeling um yeah never
feeling like like bashful or ashamed or
something that this would be something
that I would like choose to engage in
and this is something they were engaged
in and I think that one of the things
that helps make it that way is how much
they love to do it right that when you
go out like the infectious excitement of
heading out in the morning the fact that
they still feel it like there is giddy
as anybody about going out and doing it
like very excited to go out and do it it
is not like going out to get your like
to get you to check your mailbox my my
youngest daughter has become enamored
with fishing and I love it because I get
to whenever we go on trips I take her
fishing fucking loves it man and we were
in Florida and we're gonna get to go
bass fish and I set it up how the guy
was gonna take us out I woke her up five
o'clock in the morning in the hotel I'm
carrying her she's stiff as a board cuz
she just woke up she's like I'm so
excited she was so excited she wasn't
like daddy I'm tired can we just go back
to bed now it was dark out five more and
she's just going I'm so excited
did you mind of having fun she caught it
six pound bass oh really then she's
hooked and she's got quite a few bass it
was a great lake in in Florida in
Florida obviously a lot of great bass
fishing there but we caught a ton of
largemouth bass and she caught up
Fatboy there's like a 6 pounder she's a
freaking it hit bit her finger she was
showing everybody look at bit my finger
she was so excited she fucking loves
fishing but that feeling in the morning
when I'm looking at her little face and
like we're on the water like it's a
genetic thing it seems like it's just in
the DNA yeah
the fishing is it's not like hey we're
gonna go play soccer which she likes to
but this is not that kind of excitement
no there's a like this is gonna be so
fun there's like it's triggering
something that is it's deep inside human
beings I see it and I see it in I see it
in varying degrees in in different
people like some kids seem to come out
of the box with more of it yeah you know
yeah my owning that as a euphemism know
it might might Ted my ten-year-old
daughter doesn't she's like yeah we can
go fishing like she's gone fishing cause
it's ok it's ok when I when we had a
daughter my wife was adamant you know
early on as soon as she found out it was
gonna be a daughter like that you will
not exclude our daughter in this world
that you're in I was like oh of course
not you know and I and I don't but
having in my mind I don't feel like I've
messed this up I think I've put the same
emphasis right on my I have three kids
but my older two the little bunch is a
little bit too little you have to really
know what's going on but the old types
like I put the same emphasis on it and
my daughter just isn't demonstrating the
same enthusiasm that her older brother
does and you try to suss out like the
nature nurture question because I feel
like I'm doing the same inputs right but
I'm getting different results and it
leaves you to wonder you know it's a
very small sample size but when I talk
to other parents like you know parents
who are parenting right now young kids I
just keep encountering other dads who
are having the same experience mmm and
you it really leaves you to wonder sort
of like what sort of like cultural
influences are going
there where it's like the enthusiasms
oftentimes among young girls are not as
high as you enthusiasm among boys it's
hard to control I don't know it's hard
to unpack everything yeah that's that's
my questions like I'll never I don't
sage
what's hold your kids well the two I'm
talking about are eight and five yeah
man I don't know how much culture plays
a part I know I really think that it's
and it's obviously in my small sample
group an eight year old and a 10 year
old for the youngest kids the the 8 year
old fucking loves it they're both girls
the 10 year old she's like whatever you
know if I try to wake her up take her
fish and she'd be like leave me alone
you know going back to sleep I'm sure
there are parents out there who you know
I haven't met him yet maybe they're out
there where they have like a boy and a
girl and girls into fired up and the
boys not maybe after you I guarantee
it's there's Jamie and I were just
talking about this yesterday because I
was watching this video of these there's
I want to try to put this in a
respectful way I think they're in I'm
sure you're aware of this there's people
that are in the hunting world the
outdoor industry that I think are in it
because it's a good Avenue to get
attention if you're like a hot chick
yeah if you're a hot chick and you know
you wear pink and you go out and shoot
things you take all these grip and grins
with deer and like this you're gonna get
a lot of likes yeah because like imagine
the the male perspective on it yeah is
like here's the woman who has everything
exactly and she likes to hunt yeah she's
hot and she likes to hunt and there's
quite a few of them and it's I was
telling Jamie it's a weird world because
part of me I don't want to be a sexist I
don't want to look at these girls into
me I don't I don't look at a guy who
hunts and who wants to be a part of the
outdoor industry and go oh this guy is
just doing this because he thinks this
is his avenue for fame and success I
think well here's a guy who really likes
to hunt and he realizes there's people
like Steve Rinella and John Dudley out
there and these famous hunters man I
want to be a famous hunter how do I do
it you know how do I go well I'm gonna
just start taking Instagram pictures and
say a lot of the same
shit that they say and sort of you know
put myself into the cultural norm I
don't think like that with girls because
you're like you just want to have men
like you not all of them a lot of them I
think you're super legit a lot of them
are but there's unquestionably this
added element in that world and it with
it let's be super generous and say it's
only 10% of them hmm but that 10% I'm
like I'm I'm not unaware of what you're
talking about I'm sure you know I
noticed that yeah it's yeah I even had
like a yeah I remember girls yeah it's
kind of like a yeah like a like a like
like a sex pot kind of yeah huntress
scene oh yeah it's super made up full
war paint fake eyelashes hot it's fuck
skin tight clothes out there shooting
shit taking pictures yeah it's weird and
then you go to their Instagram page and
it's like there's pictures of that and
then there's a lot of pictures with
their butt up in the air where they're
doing some strange exercise getting
ready for both things and yeah
accentuating it but like that's weird I
don't do those exercises I would really
like to I know I would really like my
two because I'm gonna continue leaning
on my I'm gonna continue leaning on my
daughter
because I would really like her I'm
gonna keep leaning on her until I feel
like she's in the Edit age where she can
legitimately say she doesn't want to go
right cuz right now if I asked her every
day hey you want to go to school she'd
be having a real delinquency problem so
like you know you really like yeah you
make kids do stuff I took her duck
huntin a couple weekends ago it was cold
morning and we get out there and before
it's even legal light
she's like felt terrible she's laying
there crying about how cold her feet are
if my boy was doing that I would have a
very different attitude about it right
then when she's crying her crying cuz
she's cold like made me feel awful right
with my boy I've been like Shh suck it
up but here I'm like hell man yeah she's
all cold now yeah
and then it make it so you really there
really is a difference yeah there's that
there's there's a difference there and
it's not you know the people who buy
hunting licenses in this country ninety
percent of people buy honey you know
ninety percent are males right right so
one in ten license holders is a woman
but then there's there's more women than
men in the you know slightly more men
women than men in the country
and there's a ton of ways of explaining
it we talked about earlier with
Neanderthals or maybe Neanderthals
didn't have these like divided roles but
in all the hunter like and
hunter-gatherer cultures is very normal
to see a division of labor here and to
have like that men were out hunting and
women we're not there's a bunch of
explanations for that like people were
tied to being home to care for small
children and you know couldn't afford
that risk something to they very there
are there some women that go out with
the hunting parties you know if it is a
you know the minute you say no someone's
gonna point out to some right variation
but in your experience you've you've
done several these trips to these remote
jungles oh yeah but that's just well
that's such a small thing I mean you get
a rather than looking at personal
experience just like from kind of
exploring the literature and reading
about you know historic accounts and
what people found what people do it is
very much the norm it is very much the
norm that hunting was you know
patrilineal descent activity and all
these cultures you go to like the cult
of the hunter is like a male sort of
cult but the factors that made it that
way
okay that's sort of the you you have to
assume that comes from some kind of
practical factor right the factors that
made it that way aren't there anymore
and I said the difficult thing to unpack
if it winds up being that if I have two
boys in one girl if it winds up being
that both boys become avid hunters and
fishermen and somehow my daughter does
not I'll probably view it as some bit of
a personal failure that I'll never know
what really was going on like I said
it's hard like unloaded I wish I could
have one
under children like 50 girls and 50 boys
and have a bigger sample size but I you
know I do wonder about it and what's
funny too is there's no like at our home
you know our kids like our kids eat tons
of wild game at our home to the point
where they don't have any you could give
them anything to eat they would eat it
and it would not register to them as
unusual they've eaten everything right
they've even eaten like breakfast
sausage made out of Fox and beaver meat
they've eaten Fox yeah they've eaten
everything wait a minute yeah you eat
Fox I have I made a batch of breakfast
sausage because I had an arctic fox one
time and I made breakfast sausage out of
it what was that like I just caught a
DIN with beaver meat and a little bit of
deer meat and a little bit of pork fat
my kids ate it and every winged lizard
you try any of the Fox on its own no
didn't try the Fox on its own I mean a
ton of things about having it I didn't
eat straight old possessed you to stuff
that Fox into that sausage I heard they
were good and I had an arctic fox and I
wanted to get a thing made for my wife
from it so I had a hat the arctic fox
hat made for and I retained the meat and
then we just ate the meat and breakfast
sausage and then like if I told him you
know if they were to ask like what meat
it is and I would say let's you know
this this and this
it wouldn't freak him out it wouldn't it
wouldn't even know it wouldn't even
register as like a that might seem
unusual to some people right so the
squirrel rabbit all manner stuff right
the just anything and so I know there's
no element of there's no influence like
that with them there's no influence of
oh that's gross all right you that's
weird
you know there we were hunting the other
day we went out and we were hunting
street pigeons you know and they'll be
pigeon meat where were you doing this in
Montana oh okay yeah there's like a guy
at a green Seidel it was like infested
with pigeons folks don't know that many
people listening to this that pigeons
were actually brought over here is food
and when you get like fancy squab on the
menu that's what a pigeon is now a
flightless pigeon pigeon hasn't flown
yet that's what a squab is
so smaller and younger you know what's
the idea yeah the meets pinkish on the
the means pinkish on squad if you wanted
squaw but we used to go out and catch
squabs where we had a lot we had like a
little almost like the equivalent of a
little trap line where they would you
know nest in various places around town
and we would just know all the places to
go check to get squabs and yeah it's one
that hasn't flown yet so but you know
people that commercially produce squab
you can just keep them from flying but
if you want squab from the wild you need
to go out and you know you just go and
collect them and what's the difference
between pigeon and squab in terms of the
way it tastes pigeon meat is tougher
grayer has more liver equality and squab
is like very tender pinkish like it's
like lean it's not like quail but it's
leaning way more in the direction of
quail like it's like if a pigeon and a
quail had a baby squabs more like that
hmm it's it's one of the biggest
surprises I had and that was one of the
biggest surprises that I've ever had in
in game what if we can combat his wild
game would be what a squab tasted like
because I had been eating I had for a
long time eating street pigeons because
no street pigeons would be you know
they're around even open the Missouri
Breaks you get street pigeons that nest
up in the in the cliffs and you know you
can you there's many places you can hunt
street pigeons and they become a
agricultural pest and they're not
regulated so there's no closed season no
bag limit right they're treated like
they have no more they're regulated like
rats if you could talk to wildlife
managers and asked if they could wave a
magic wand and make Street pigeons go
away most everybody would waive it
because they're so costly they're costly
to cities they're costly to agriculture
so I'd always eaten pigeons but the the
minute of discovering like discovering
like what a squab was like which is well
known to people in the you know fine
dining but I had never had it it was
shocking how good it is that's
interesting I've never picked it off the
menu but now I'm tempted yeah you should
do it but street pigeons I have
with that no I would eat some first just
to test it yeah make pates from it okay
but it's not something that you would go
this is one of my favorite things to eat
no is there a way to do it where you
could really like is there a preparation
maybe that you've missed it's not bad to
to put it in a marinade and you can
grill it mmm
you know what you want to take little
brats and you poke it a whole bunch like
poke it with a fork and tenderize a
little bit and also make some like
avenues of approach for the marinade and
then you know grill them over a very hot
flame but what was good is like to use
it like similar to like stuff with
ptarmigan or whatever they look to make
pates and Trine's ptarmigan is something
that you cooked that way as well I've
only seen people do ptarmigan on that uh
woods that show called life below zero
um so lady who lives she's been on the
show before she lives like fucking hell
what does she live like 200 miles above
the Arctic Circle something crazy like
that and she hunts ptarmigan yeah up
there the best time again I've ever
eaten and this is whe this is in in our
new cookbook too but though I mentioned
using ptarmigan for it but it's just a
dish that's great for regular like any
any kind of meat particularly game birds
like you have it you've got a hot pot
mm-hmm yeah were you like we have the
you know you have like the simmering
broth and you have all these raw like
raw sliced meats you dip in there mm-hmm
the best timing I've ever had is just
like that hmm it's it's otherworldly you
know it's just kind of like like kind of
like when you slice it thin and cook it
that way I just kind of vanishes on your
tongue it's a very very tender meat you
can almost kind of mash it up people are
like a thing you hear with a lot of
gamers people describe ptarmigan treat
street pigeon a lot of game birds people
describe as livery
diving ducks being livery because it's
like a texture thing to it and then less
strength of flavor and a darkness of
color and those and you know people make
a lot of pate deliver right so those
birds that have that quality often times
they just they they can find their way
into pates so we also have recipes for
that
like how to do pates from using all all
manner of meat do you have any recipes
in that book for brown bear no but we
have bear recipes is there a difference
you know brown bear black bears are
among people who know black bears are
widely accepted as being good to eat if
you go into if you go to earlier I
mentioned Daniel Boone so if you go into
that like the the the the frontier era
of American history right which
proceeded just these little lingo terms
the frontier era of American history
preceded the mountain-man era of
American history were like the the
eastern settlements right if you read it
like about Daniel Boone's area you know
early 1700s up into you know up into the
Revolutionary War bear me was the most
popular meat on the frontier black bears
the most popular is in preferred yeah
preferred over venison really yeah
people hunt a deer to sell deer hides
and they would eat the deer meat people
hunt embarrasses that that's what they
like to eat hmm yeah it's there's more
beef like you know right and you know
when cooked right people love bear meat
brown bears grizzly bears just don't
enjoy the same reputation different
diets the thing you run in with brown
like when we use it we use it turn brown
like brown bears kind of almost like a
like a it's usable amongst hunters a lot
but it is all it's all one species so
whether you got a grizzly bear in
Wyoming or brown bear on Kodiak it's
taxonomically its regarded as as a
single species people call brown bear
brown bear is a grizzly you'll get all
kinds of people writing you to say about
various points of this but like debating
various aspects of this a brown bear is
a grizzly with access to marine
resources we're a marine resources make
up a major component of its diet and
then the question you bring up is then
like if you go to the North Slope so if
you go to the Arctic coast and you saw a
grizzly there you'd be like well he has
access to marine resources he could eat
a beached whale whatever but he's a
grizzly
so like brown bears kind of extend right
from you know northern BC
up around and hook around into the
Bering Sea but at some point they're
just not brown bears anymore they're
here they tend to be big and and
oftentimes because of the name like they
tend to have like a darker coloration
they have a horrible reputation as food
you'll always find people who will point
it out right or nowadays because people
are so we're like in the social media
world nowadays you'll have people to
kill a brown bear and here you are
you've got four or five hundred pounds
of meat and they'll talk about how
they're going to eat it but like dude
you're in for a pound a day really yeah
they're really what happened really
that's true right and then there's no
Salvage requirement on it there's no
Salvage requirement on it don't you have
to in Alaska don't you have to pack it
out
it depends there's some areas that have
zero some areas you know typically
typically no but there are areas that do
have Salvage requirements where I have a
cabin there's a salvage requirement on
bear meat in the spring because in areas
where bears so that's a black but your
yeah your cabin is you know that there
it's Island by Island so somehow you go
like the ABC islands like like you know
you go to Admiralty Island and Admiralty
Island is all brown bears so it winds up
being that if the island is good brown
bear habitat it will only have brown
bears because on the islands where it's
smaller they just would they kill all
the black bears they're there and black
bears aren't there if the island is not
brown bear habitat and can't support
brown bears it'll become a black bear
island Prince of Wales is a black bear
island Admiralty is a brown bear island
and you know kind of depends on how much
seams and maybe depend on how much like
open country or Alpine or you know if
it's like densely densely forested it's
less suitable and becomes a black bear
territory but black bears in the spring
have a salvage requirement because if
you're talking about coastal bears
coastal bears are better to eat in the
spring when they're not eating tons of
rotten salmon
in the fall there wouldn't be a salvage
requirement because when they're eating
dead salmon their flesh can become not
good I remember you telling me a story
about using the guy's smoker and he told
the guy man you need to clean that
smoker out smells like fish yeah it's
like I've never cooked a fish's yeah
that's cuz you you were smoking a bear
in it yep and that was a that was an
early June and early June black bear
who's not getting salmon but it's it
stores up that flavor stores on their
fat I've watched even wolves eating
salmon that were so rotten that they're
like lapping it up where it just turns
into a gray mush in the Bears and
people's idea of a bear is like eating a
brand-new fresh fish which they love to
do and they seem to prefer it like when
there's tons of fresh fish and they're
just getting fresh fish delta c eggs
right but as the fish run dies down they
just start eating rotten fish i came how
we got talking about quality of food Oh
were you asking why so even like my
bones buck Bowden who like I said he's
picked the the head meat off of
Wolverine skull to eat it buckboard and
said he's struggled his entire life and
just hasn't found a way to make brown
bears that good there are exceptions
people run into good taste and ones the
you know it's talking about like
Grizzlies up on the North Slope a very
good reputation any black bear in the
Rockies any black bear is good I mean
I've heard stories like I had a body to
kill one over a dead cow one time mmm he
killed him it was scavenging a rotten
cow and he had a hard time with the meat
but generally bears that aren't eating
marine resources are pretty are
phenomenally good I talked to my friend
Eric Weinstein yesterday he's a
mathematician one of smartest guys I
know and he has been fascinated by my
obsession with hunting and so he started
watching a bunch of hunting things
online and he said he was very put off
I saw people killing bears with spears
yeah and celebrating and the way they
were celebrating my stuff he's like he
found the thing the whole thing I you
know and I saw his point
and we had this discussion about it
we're you know acknowledging the need to
control the population and that this is
all that they're allocated certain
amount of tags by wildlife biologists
and this keeps the moose population
healthy and the deer population know all
these different things and even that
people eat them all those things made
sense to him but the celebration and the
the all the Hootin and Hollerin and
stuff is like there was just not enough
of a reverence for the dead and it
really really disturbed him yeah
that's it's a great subject and it's
hard to it's hard to approach because
they're so you find so many
contradictions and in weird parts of it
and by that I mean this I was having the
conversation and I was a gentleman over
dinner and we were talking about he was
explaining me like what is the role of a
rancher and what is the role of the
farmer here's a person who's bringing
animals into life he's propagating
breeding animals with sole intention
that they will all die and he will make
his living off of their death but that
person remains a sort of cultural icon
they enjoy like a celebration you know
when you're trying to sell sell a pickup
truck right if you can tie it to a
rancher it makes that pickup truck seem
more legitimate and just celebrated
character if you like oh he's an old
cowboy yeah and we like that it's like
what is and not that I'm definitely out
knocking them like let me get where I'm
going with this but what is that like
that person is based off of like rearing
animals in order that they may die and
he profits from their death and remains
celebrated and then you get into the
idea of what in a when it comes to
American wildlife where we have a
population of wildlife in many respects
we have it and enjoy the management that
we do and the abundance that we do in
many ways that abundance is supported
bolstered financed
by hunters but hunters tend to not enjoy
that same cultural support hmm because
of the death right well it's also
because of media depictions sure I think
that's the big part of it more than even
so than the death if our if all of our
depictions about hunting were tied into
this sort of rational discourse and they
showed all the images from your show of
animals being shot and and carefully
butchered in the field and then prepared
and cooked and enjoyed I think people
would have a way different perception
but you know we have Elmer Fudd you have
the the evil hunters and the movies that
are always you know trying to torture
the animals I mean it's it's Disney and
anthropomorphic ization of these animals
and all these different films and media
depictions and books that shit and then
teddy bears all these things are like
stained into people's brains of what's
good and what's bad you know very few
kids have stuffed cows that their pets
yeah or that their toys the of teddy
bears and maybe Rudolph the red-nosed
reindeer you know want to shoot it off
no it seems that it seems that it gets
much worse and more contentious the less
the popular if the American population
is looking at something is they
recognize as game they feel different
right things that they don't recognize
this game that they don't readily
recognize this game um to see that death
is more abhorrent to them even if it is
being treated as game but like Ryan you
don't like you don't see social media
explosions come up around someone with a
turkey right you don't see a lot of
social media explosions come up with
someone around a white-tailed deer
people look at that they see this animal
that they perceive to be very abundant
in the case of whitetails and turkeys
are correct very abundant they're
familiar with them they're familiar with
the idea of these things being hunted
and it feels different now if there's
things that were there's a perceived
scarcity okay and they don't immediately
recognize it as a food item it's hard
for them
extremely and this is way outside of my
personal area of expertise but like what
goes on in Africa but for people to see
animals in Africa that have been hunted
and they recognize them only from like
film depictions cartoon depictions
mobiles over their child's crib like
like a hippopotamus is very like you
can't look at that and it's hard to see
that as like the harvest of game it
becomes something very different and
it's we've watched it happen with bears
you know also a thing that will happen
is if you initiate the hunting of
something that wasn't hunted before
that's very difficult for people so you
take a state where like New Jersey or
Florida were they for a long time you
know historically they would have a bear
season they would lose the bear see that
the bear seas would go away because of a
resource scarcity then later they would
recover the resource and want to
reinitiate the hunt people have a very
difficult time with that being like if
it wasn't hunted before
how can it be hunted now right and that
trips people up really bad where they
people have hard to get on board with it
I love you watch what's going on with
grizzly bears and around what has been
unfortunately named the Greater
Yellowstone Ecosystem where you sort of
have this cultural custody battle around
who owns this Indiana sized huncle and
surrounding Yellowstone where the big
because of naming people sort of think
of it as as Yellowstone when it
certainly is not it's a you know large
areas surrounding it but there we had a
period where we weren't you know we
stopped grizzly on them because the
animals are being over harvested habitat
destruction and then you go through an
enormous amount of work to recover the
species and people are extremely
resistant to the idea that you would
start hunting now that you would now
start hunting something you weren't
hunting a few days ago Brian that's like
but it's also what you were saying
earlier that's not recognized as a game
species because I'm thought of something
you eat yeah like mountain lions like
even if mountain lions are a nuisance
like there was a woman that had she had
a depredation permit because mountain
lions had killed like ten alpacas and
goat in her farm in Malibu and she
decided not to act on the permit because
there was so many different people that
were threatening her there was so many
wildlife activists that were threatening
her and just general people online death
threats because she they you know she
was gonna hire someone to shoot this
mountain lion that had been I mean it
just went a thrill kill and got into one
of our pens just went ham you know and
but people they think of that thing is
somehow another better than out her
alpacas which is very weird no people
just recently protested the killing of
tiger of a tiger in India that had
killed 13 people I saw that I put that
on line and people in the comments where
we're like fuck those people like okay
you're out of your mind what if that was
your sister one of those you're your
daughter who's your mom what if is your
brother your brother watch it watching
your brother getting dragged away by a
giant monster yeah you know and just
because it's called the tiger you're
cool with that like fuck fuck your
brother don't what you saying
the this was an interesting year I don't
mean that well let me finish my thought
no I don't want to sound callous I might
call it interesting but Washington State
had its first mountain lion mortality
like we're mountain lion killed a human
for the first time it was 94 years in
Oregon is when organ had its first in
state history yeah and with the one in
Washington it killed a person they
tracked a lion down and killed the lion
and the state Fish and Game Department
got you know predictably like a bunch of
blowback for having killed and I was
talking to someone who was involved with
that and I was saying I you know i think
that the blowback would have been a lot
worse had you not done it yeah you know
but you just don't you don't hear from
those people there is there would be
blowback honestly if they didn't kill
the lion if the line is just out there
roaming around I think people would just
ignore it because the news cycles so
fucking quick yeah I think they would
lose it would get lost and Trump would
say something stupid about North Korea
or whatever and people would forget you
know I can you know I continue to you
know I continue to hunt black bears
I eat black bears it's like you know in
the case of
you have a rapidly expanding mountain
lion populations there's a lot of
mountain lions mountain lions are
recolonizing new territories all the
time they're managed you know most
states manage them very tightly with
mortality quotas female mortality quotas
open season close season permit draws
right that they're managed is a game
animal they're there they're hunted and
there's some allowable use of the
renewable resource and at the same time
that that's going on we're enjoying
expanding populations of mountain lions
I'll I personally welcome the return of
mountain lions to any suitable habitat
where there's enough space for them to
live without causing you know undue
friction by them butting up against
human interests and I encourage people
who are in areas that are being caught
recolonized by mountain lions to you
know practice some level of tolerance
and use best best use practices or best
case practices around to like avoid
conflict right same thing with bears
like I welcome the return of bears I
think there's a lot of areas in this
country a lot but there's a handful of
areas in this country that could have
sustainable populations of grizzly bears
that's like suitable habitat that is not
being used by grizzly bears and couldn't
should be used by grizzly bears at the
same time I like to see when it's
appropriate I like to see state-managed
wildlife practices and then allowable
harvest of animals there's a lot of
people listening to this that don't even
understand that mountain lions are
edible and in fact you say delicious I
like I was eating mountain lions long
before I ever 100 mountain I've hunted
one mountain lion in my life
and I've eaten bunch more than that so I
had never had the question about it you
know I'd never had the question about
whether it was good or not the vast
majority of the people listening to this
right now are probably like what yeah
among among pounds men like monkey who
deal lions is widely known that it's
very good meat but I was introduced to
it that way I was there's a place when I
was living in Missoula Montana there's a
place 20 miles east there called Rock
Creek Lodge and they're famous for
having this big thing called the
testicle festival in the fall where
you know if you castrate steers you know
people will fry up the nuts right and so
the testicle festivals is big it's kind
of like turning like this bigger head
turned into this kind of like biker
festival but it was just this big party
it was centered around eating deep-fried
cow balls and we used to go down there
all the time and go drinking and one
time I was at that same place in the
spring and this guy had a pot of pot of
like what looked like pulled pork you
know Bart with barbecue sauce and he had
a bunch of buns out and he's just giving
it away and I was eating it and he was
telling me how it was Mountain Lion meat
and he was saying you know is he sound
like balls in the fall and pussy in the
spring you know breed Mountain land
there and that's the first time I had
mountain lion and then later I had a
girlfriend who's from Wyoming and she
one day is standing behind a guy in a
she's standing behind a guy in a
hardware store who's buying a mountain
lion tag and she asked him what do you
do with all that meat and he didn't want
it so she gave him her phone number and
when he got his lion he gave us the
whole damn thing and so we ate that
whole mountain lion then I came in to
other mountain lion meat in other ways
and always enjoyed it to the point where
I wasn't eating it because I had a moral
obligation to eat what I killed I was
going out of my way to get it because
I'd rather eat someone else's mountain
lion than buy pork and it's like pork
it's that similar it's white meat man
Wow you can take the back straps with
fat on it you can leave the fat on it
and take that back strap and see you got
a cooker cook still have you know it's
probably gonna have trichinosis so you
got to cook it to 160 just like old just
how pork used to be
cook it sear it the fats good the meats
good we cook it down and make all kinds
of preparations with the cook down my
kids meat they keep they eat a bunch of
wild they would eat a bunch of mountain
lion me you know well cooked yeah but
that's one of those things that were not
accustomed to but we're we're fine with
things we are accustomed to yeah if you
showed a mountain lion dead on social
media and you like can't wait to eat
this people would go fucking crazy yeah
but you saw that recent controversy with
that woman who shot a goat invasive
species on an eye
a Scotland it's an animal they have to
hunt yeah they literally have to hunt
them if they don't if you've never seen
what a goat can do to an environment
they just destroy everything they eat
everything they can they they cause
erosion they decimate all the local
foliage but they weren't seeing that and
I think that they were like the people
that were upset about that we're really
like struggling to describe why I'd
upset him even a politician to pointed
out that the person was wearing
camouflage because traditionally in
Scotland you hunt with different clothes
and I mean there was no secret that
there was hunting going on out there
right no secret at all it was that it's
an American that she's wearing
camouflage
she's adorned you know like like makeup
and was kind of like a like a beautiful
image setup she had a high-powered rifle
which they're already using out there
anyways and it's just a confusing idea
in a confusing image for people had it
been some old Scottish dude with his
with his you know deerstalker outfit on
but there's something where people are
like why her and why here yeah and it
also her description of it as a fun hunt
mm-hmm yeah I mean people had a lot of
problems with it but it's also I think
because it's there wasn't anything else
going on
she caught a cycle you know she just got
you know she was headed down the river
and a tributary opened up and she went
right into controversy Bank yeah that's
what I think happened and the people
that were tweeting about I saw Agron
Glenn Greenwald tweet about it and like
you're a journalist like you're an
actual journalist the respected
journalist you should really do some
research on this because you the way
you're calling it I don't know I mean
Glenn Greenwald is I believe he's some
sort of an animal rights activist I
don't know if he's a vegan I don't know
if he's a vegetarian
but I know Ricky Gervais isn't he's not
a vegetarian he's not no really yes
that's the weird part
right yeah that's funny man that I
didn't know that I don't know with him
on a radio show about it he's me yes we
were talking about hunting and you know
I brought it up because we were on the
radio show together on the Opie and
Anthony show and I said I
shot bears and I eat them you know I eat
everything I kill and I hunt for food
and I prefer to get meat that way and we
discussed the fact that he eats meat huh
yeah it's really surprised it's a weird
one right this is a good it's a there's
a virtual signaling aspect of shitting
on hunters where you're always going to
get some positive remount remarks about
it it's it's difficult for me it's not
difficult for me for from someone who
doesn't who doesn't eat meat right I I
can I don't have any problem have a
problem with it like I'm like you know
my brother said a bass player I don't
know he said maybe they have a point but
when it's come from someone who doesn't
meet it why is it demonstrate like
they're trying to put them to condemn
hunters who are hunting like a regulated
resource yeah to condemn them you're
sort of acting like when you condemn you
sort of acting like oh I care about
these issues and I want to be out here
and I want to be like articulating a
perspective and and I know what's going
on but then so you're like putting
yourself out as a person who has
opinions of value right just to just
like let your opinion be known yeah so
if you're gonna have that like where's
the self-examination exactly where you
are if you're eating meat like you're
contributing all kinds of animal death
like what is your understanding of what
is your understanding of those lives and
those deaths how is that not part of
your reckoning if I do let's say I am
happy that I got a bear that I will eat
with my family let's say I am happy
about it um is it better for you that
you're kind of is it better to be sad
about it somehow is it better to be
regretful or just ignore the fact
altogether or why is it not okay that
I'm happy about what I eat I know the
story of it really well like I
understand the history of wildlife in
this country I don't want to say better
than anybody but damn sure better than
most I know where we've been I have a
good sense of where we're going in terms
of American wildlife what the challenges
are for American wildlife right I'm
involved in this stuff on a daily base
I can know all that and I can see my
place in it right I can see what my
actions are and whether my actions are
helpful or hurtful for something that I
care a great deal about and if I can
know that well and get a deer a bear
whatever and have it be food and find
that I'm like really happy to be
involved in that if that somehow is
off-putting to people but it's okay to
be that it's I'm blind to it I have this
nagging sense of guilt about it that I
haven't reckoned with I don't really
know about it you know and that's like
that that's like an accessible position
for some people to have it's really hard
for me with people that are that that
are contributing to animal death who
want to condemn those who are more
willing to or for whatever reason
willing to excited about taking part in
the process themselves I got to find a
way to I got to find a way to to engage
with it though and I need to get a
better understanding of it because it's
the the debate isn't going away
I can't keep brushing it off is so
ridiculous that it doesn't warrant my
time because clearly it does warrant my
time to understand that perspective I
just haven't had anybody really give to
me in a good way I have people say like
oh but they were raised to be eaten
that's a foolish perspective that's that
to me is way way worse it's a life
condemned I'd rather talk you'll google
of Glenn Greenwald as a vegan I probably
talk to someone like Ricky Gervais about
it because I assume that he's articulate
about it he's articulate I don't think
his position is nuanced I don't I don't
I think there's some willful ignorance
that's a part of people that eat meat
but condemned hunting willful and the
fact that like I said they know that
they're going to get a certain reaction
out of people when they tweet about it
on social media one thing if you're
talking about someone who's out there
shooting things and not eating it okay I
get it I'm with you so if some guys are
shooting an elephant coz he wants its
tusks I'm on your side I get it but if
someone chooses to hunt you know and an
animal fill-in-the-blank that might be a
goat might be weird to you that they're
eating this thing but they're shooting
this it's an invasive species it's
actually very delicious his
very edible prized for its meat by some
communities you don't make any sense you
know doing this because you know that
other people are ignorant about it as
well and either you're ignorant because
you've never bothered to look into it or
you've bothered to look into it you're
ignoring the nuance yeah in the case of
the goat thing this is all added thing
there's an added element that our
government on the federal level is
involved there's a lot of state wildlife
management agencies that are involved in
trying to do wild goat eradication
projects on islands yes this is
something that's ongoing all the time in
Hawaii and many other places where we're
like out helicopter gunning yeah
helicopter gunning for invasive species
explain to people how those goats got
there in the first place because this is
also very weird a variety of ways but a
lot of things were a lot of island
species this is one way it happens where
invasive on islands would be introduced
by seafarers whalers who would want to
establish food resources along
transoceanic routes so you could put
something there and come back and get it
later
early waited like the Whalers used to
come out of the the American Northeast
like all those famous whaling villages
and in New England you know they would
go down and stop in and and like you
know stop in and the Galapagos whatever
and gather up tortoises that they could
flip over in the hold of a boat and the
tortoise stay alive for months on its
back you'd have like a fresh meat
resource and as people came to
understand scurvy and realizing that
fresh meat gives you enough vitamin C to
avoid scurvy that you can get from dried
meat because you know the way the
vitamin C behaves through the cooking
and drying process but like fresh meat
you can keep from having scurvy meat
became like even more important then but
people would come in and like cut some
sheep loose cut some goats loose on an
island and know that they're gonna breed
and build up a big population and that
can be like a place you stop in and get
food and other things get introduced in
other ways and of course animals move
you know so if you have one
Island has close proximity to another
Island they can swim across yeah bump
over and it destroys native vegetation
they trample birds nests and so you have
in many cases where introductions of non
natives particularly not need of grazing
animals non-native predators will wind
up causing like a lot of extinctions of
endemic species on islands and creates
all kinds of problems and that's exactly
we're talking about with this go in that
picture so this is an animal that must
be killed if you want healthy wildlife
on that Island the native wildlife and
the native fauna the flora all this
stuff that lives there all the stuff
that's supposed to be there you got to
kill the goats otherwise they'll eat
everything but I think people look
people look and they they they they look
in there like I don't buy that that was
the motivation of that person what I
care about is motivations of individuals
I think you're right because when
California got rid of mountain lion
hunting they're still killing several
hundred mountain lions here a year
people are comfortable with like the the
total lion kill didn't change much
people are comfortable with the state
agent or someone being paid to go out
and kill lines they're not comfortable
with someone paying who wants to go do
it
I don't think they realize I don't think
they realized that state agencies are
killing as many mountain lions in
California as they are I don't think
people understand that I think people do
understand if something gets put on the
ballot you know would you like to
reintroduce mountain lion hunting people
would go crazy like why would you do
that mountain lions are beautiful
they're exciting I want to see them that
but these are people in Santa Monica you
know I'm saying yeah they're not people
that are living you know an hour outside
of Bakersfield they've got 16 mountain
lions in their backyard in a year that's
this is a different kind of world you
know if they're in the tachi mountains
out there and a seamount lions all the
time they have a lot of mount lines yeah
and there's an issue and there's a
problem too that I view this is coming
from there's a problem or I think a lot
people have a very hard time empathizing
with people who might be negatively
impacted by wildlife as well
and the question of the lion issue Brian
where it's kind of like this idea like
well you better suck it up right yeah so
if you're a rancher and you're running
cattle in the area where you're losing a
lot of cattle the wolves and Grizzlies
people will look and be like you better
suck it up buddy like I can't really
picture your problem but your complaints
are not legitimate well they can't it's
someone were to cut a if someone were to
cut a grizzly loose in Golden Gate State
Park right I don't know um
I think that people would have would
come to have a different perspective on
that to put it mildly
yeah but it winds up being that you look
and people are they don't really want to
hear about other people's problems if it
doesn't if it doesn't jive with their
understanding of what problems are and
that's area where the issue around
grizzly bears and in the delisting so
you know they were delisted they were
removed from endangered species act
protection temporarily because they had
met all recovery goals so when we like
what's the recovered population looked
like they mapped out what would look
like and we've exceeded that for many
years now and they were delisted but
then Wyoming and Idaho moved to have a
very limited hunt on them and then they
were a federal judge block the delisting
and they went back enlisting was the
federal judges motivation well you want
to hope that that they didn't have one
you wanted you want to think that they
were just looking at you know the
details of it but I think there's a
suspicion that that person went into
that knowing damn sure what they were
gonna do you know but but you don't
really know I mean a lot of these
arguments around they come down to like
technicalities right no one's arguing
that the populations recovered but
there's also the argument that the judge
is probably trying to protect his own
reputation because the amount of
blowback that a judge would receive for
allowing a hunt to go through is vastly
different than blocking a hunt yeah
blocking a hunt you're not gonna get
that much blowback you get a few people
that are upset but it hadn't been an
established resource not only you're
taking something away from people but if
he allow
poor the wildlife people go fucking
bananas on this guy yeah they tend to
like and I don't even call him in but
like I don't call them environmentalists
like people who sued a block the
delisting of recovered species there
they'll masquerade as you know
ecologically conscious environmentalists
but they're just people who it's it's
untenable to them you know they can't
that they're never going to accept the
idea that that you're gonna have human
exploitation of this resource right that
they masquerade is there they have an
environmental motivation but it's not
it's like it's an animal rights
motivation there's a very there's a they
have a sensitive ear in a certain
federal court you know a Missoula and so
you'll see a lot of these cases around
wolves and Grizzlies they'll get that
they'll want it done through that court
they know they're probably have a
friendly take on it I think it was a
real it was the watching that happen and
that's been having reason I think it was
a real a real travesty because there's a
couple things that happen like
culturally in areas where you'll you
create a lot of tension with people
where there's people that are living
amongst these things and they're looking
for some level of some level of relief
and they want to see it go to state
management and they might want to see
the state exercise some control over
where certain populations of large
predators are spreading into and when it
winds up being that they're like their
voices are not heard you know and they
feel that people from far away are
really heavily influencing decisions
that affect them on a daily basis it
winds up creating like a lot of
animosity toward the species to where
means I think about what happened with
the spotted owl right the spotted owl no
one can see no one perceives the spotted
owl as owl anymore the spotted owl has
become like a symbol of federal
overreach and you'll find that like you
know wolves for a while they become like
a symbol of a dispute and people stop
like liking the animals much and it
becomes like this like contentious
creature and I think that we're gonna
head that way if we keep if if we keep
stepping in on wildlife issues with the
mentality that we've been approaching
the wolf and grizzly issue in the
northern Great Lakes
the Northern Rockies soon to be in the
Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem now I
think you're dealing with local and then
you're dealing with national right so
the local people gonna have an issue
with it because they're going to be
impacted by it it's gonna be directly
impacting their life dogs are going to
be killed while you know what they're
gonna take domestic cattle and all sorts
of different things you're gonna have
real issues with the people that like to
go elk hunting the populations have
diminished rapidly but the rest of the
country doesn't give a shit
no people in San Francisco they don't
give a fuck about it people in Chicago
aren't impacted by it
if especially if they don't have anyone
in their family that hunts or anyone
that has a background in hunting and
they don't have a background in it
themselves they don't care now people
really don't and it's III pointed out
all the time but um that I care about
the availability and bunt and abundance
of deer elk moose caribou right like I
care about the resource there's a lot of
people who rely on the resource use the
resource their major economic drivers
I'm definitely I'm anything but I'm like
I regard myself as a pro wolf person I
regard myself as a pro grizzly person I
cherish every interaction I have with
those animals do you think I'd love to
be around I'm a resource I don't have a
problem with callin respected people but
people do have a problem with calling a
resource and um and and yeah I'm like
pro I'd like to ensue Tabo habitat I
like to see them present I also like to
see that that I also like to see them
managed in the way that allows for
abundant wild game resources what's
going on House passed the bill to drop
legal protections for gray wolves as
passed today whoa well roll down a
little bit
republican-controlled House passed a
bill on Friday to drop legal protections
for gray wolves across the lower 48
states reopening a lengthy battle over
the predator species long despised by
farmers and ranchers wolves were shot
trap poisoned out of existence in most
of the US in the mid 20th century by the
mid 20th centuries since securing
protection in the 1970s wolves have
bounced back while
it's not really exactly what happened
Great Lakes of Michigan Minnesota and
Wisconsin as well in the Northern
Rockies in Pacific Northwest that's sort
of but they're not talking about the
reintroduction the reintroduction is the
big issue right well and that's what
people have great issue with well yeah
but the reintroduction is only in one
area the the great lake the northern
Great Lakes that was not a
reintroduction there was you know one
sizable population well movements of
wolves coming down from Canada and
coming back in the northern cotton the
core northern Continental Divide
ecosystem not a reintroduction you had a
place famous yeah well yet the famous
case of the famous reintroduction
Yellowstone National Park
so it wasn't widely viewed now it's
widely viewed now that if you wouldn't
have done that you would have had had
you not done that reintroduction you too
had a natural flow anyway a natural flow
from Canada you've gotten you devote you
would have eventually you would have
eventually gotten there anyway
interesting but would they have gotten
to the exact same levels no no at this
particular point right now and I think
that'd be like laughable the ACK result
they would be there now but but but
people there's no realization that you
would have that without the
reintroduction you would have through
natural movement have eventually gotten
you know do you think that that's that
the that supports the idea of the
reintroduction you think the
reintroduction was well thought out I
don't want it you know I'm not gonna
debate the merits the reintroduction
like I said my perspective on it it
should be in a place where it supports
them yeah my perspective on it is I
don't
the idea of extinction and regional
extra patient sickens me I do not
believe in I do not believe that like as
of people as a culture we can justify or
afford to remove species of wildlife
from the landscape native species of
wildlife from the landscape it's like I
said the idea sickens me I'd like to you
know I like to have all native wildlife
present on the landscape so I don't
oppose it what I oppose is
a thing that's happened now is getting
where we have populations that we agree
like what will recovery look like and at
what point when what how will we manage
all the different viewpoints that are
coming in all the different like
interests of all these varied
stakeholders and at what point where we
get in there and manipulate the
situation that we're creating I just
would move that in a different direction
where I think that when that recovered
species right in this case we're timing
out wolves and Grizzlies I think that
you should have that if you can do it in
a sustainable way that doesn't have
long-term deleterious impacts on the
population so they should be managed as
a renewable resource see this is where
people are gonna have issues the Germans
won't have a just even the term you
manage them as a renewable resource you
mean shoot them and kill them and use
their fur sure I think that I think that
recovered species that I think that if
you put something on the endangered
species act and it goes under federal
protection and then when it reaches
recovery and the US Fish and Wildlife
Service says it's recovered it's time to
hand it back to state management if a
state then decides that they're going to
do some limited harvest particularly bit
let's say there even if they're focusing
on areas where there's like very high
prevalence of human animal conflict and
the state decides to do that in some
like minor way as a way to service the
needs of certain segments of their
population that wants something to
happen I don't think that then some at
like an activist judge or or
environmental groups or animal rights
groups should come in be like well
nevermind we're gonna pretend that
they're not recovered now because we
want to prevent the state from doing
something that we think is unsavory well
the thought process behind the people
that support blocking the hunt is that
if you leave these animals alone
naturally they're gonna find balance and
that the wolves will kill the elk and
till there's not enough elk for them to
sustain their populations and the
numbers of their offspring will dwindle
and they'll get to some sort of a
sustainable level yeah but we already we
live in a lot of in a heavily
manipulated kind of land a kind of
man-made environment now the idea that
things are gonna
we would just let things run their
course and watch what happens isn't
gonna happen you're still gonna have a
lot of Grizzlies every year are still
gonna get in trouble they're still gonna
get killed you're still gonna have
mortality you know you're gonna have
tons of grizzly mortality in tough areas
but their Chili's aren't acting in packs
that's not but they kill they kill
cattle and they come up they brought up
against humans it's just like it's
inevitably gonna have some day you're
not gonna let it run as a person as a
hunter I also don't have a problem with
an actually support as a hunter that we
would you know while allowing wolves to
be present on the landscape that we
would mitigate their impact on big game
I don't mind saying I don't mind just
coming out and saying that I like to
have high populations of big-game
animals that are available to hunters
and also at the same time sharing some
of that resource they're having wolves
on the ground doing it don't want to see
them gone not anti wolf not anti grizzly
it's just one of those were it's it's
because a wolf is so much like a dog and
because there's not a great history of
people eating I remember you tell me
about one mountain man where his
favorite food was wolf filled amor
Steffensen yeah who's the arctic
explorer what a crazy fucker that guy
must yeah uh-huh Laurie loved wolf meat
you ever tried it no no no levian coyote
you've eaten Caio so you've eaten a
species I've never I've never killed a
wolf never killed a grizzly bear mmm
just haven't haven't eaten either oh I
ate one coyote yeah didn't eat it didn't
like it haven't messed with one since
yeah you said that was similar to diver
duck - right
that was Remy Remy felt it tastes like
bad diver dark ie diver ducks and still
eat diver ducks but no I haven't no I
haven't haven't done that anymore and
then haven't included any coyote recipes
and there's no coyote recipes in the
wild game cookbook either wolf might be
the ultimate one that people are gonna
have a problem with it's a very that
might be where the the rubber hits the
road well you know in some places become
a moot point because Idaho Wyoming
Montana
all have state management of wolves yeah
all of the things that were all these
horrible things that were gonna happen
when the states resumed management of
wolves didn't materialize right
but those places also have a rich
history of hunting yeah but it was it
was gonna be the end of wolves right it
hasn't been in the first few years in
the first few years the Wolves seasons
he actually had you actually saw the
populations go up well it's so hard to
hunt them right
well they it winds up being that putting
that with that little bit of hunting
pressure on them really changed they're
really changed their movements and
changed the way they perceive human
threats and they adjust to it pretty
quickly but it hasn't led to you know I
think a lot of people looking in those
cases where it was pretty effective you
know it was very effective to bring in
to bring in limited regulated hunting
had the desired effect on how wolves are
using the landscape and ways in which
they were interacting and in avoiding
humans and then I have no doubt - I have
no doubt - like it'll the situational
probably in the northern Great Lakes
they had state management law state
management like it bounces back and
forth you're gonna you're gonna
eventually I mean kind of depends on how
the political winds blow but you're
eventually gonna wind up with it there
and you're not gonna see wolves vanish
from the landscape you know you just not
if grizzly bears wind up doing it you're
still gonna see you're gonna see
gradually expanding populations of
grizzly bears to fight despite the fact
that they're using limited harvest to
achieve certain management objectives
it's not going to be the end of the
world it's just not yeah I agree with
you and I think the grizzly bear thing
you probably have the same sort of
situation where the Grizzlies will
eventually think of people as a threat
and it'll probably safer for everybody
that's one thing that people that's one
thing that people hoping again people
aren't really a lot of people looking
from the outside in aren't very
sensitive to it you know to the idea of
the way that which that's an you know
that this is impacted professional
hunting guides hunters but these are my
people these are people that I care
about and I care about their needs yeah
right
and it's an is an issue so time will
tell where that where that winds up well
we see it in BC where they've just taken
it away and they take it as if taken it
in a very rational way because they have
a large population of Grizzlies and PC
it's very large and for people that live
up there that that hunt them this is
kind of scaring the shit out of them
mm-hmm that all of a sudden you've taken
this away first of all it was a source
of income for a lot of these people that
would guide them but it was also a smart
thing to control the population and keep
them away from humans well I that I
watched that closely though I don't feel
it being another country you know you
don't have that sense of being that
other country you don't have that sense
of the of that you could influence you
know so it's like it's kind of watching
something happen in a distant way and
you don't feel it's close to you and I
don't know all the factors that play as
well as I do here well I have some
friends live up there my friend Mike
Hawk Ridge who's a guide up there and
he's told me horror stories about
Grizzlies I'd shoot one trying to get
into his cabin from like 6 feet away
yeah and you know they're big fuckers
they are I love them to death they're
great I mean it's cool they're real I
mean really is it's a wild thing that
they're that we have this huge monster
that lives in the woods yeah haven't
been charged by them I wouldn't change a
thing man yeah you were charged by them
and I like having I like every encounter
and every mix-up and its really it's
like deeply complicated stuff and and
when top of these things it's also they
become like everything they become a
proxy we're engaged in a debate about
what is you know we're engaged in debate
about like conflicting views on wildlife
and these animals step in to this debate
and the debate centers around them and
it winds up being bigger than a debate
about Grizzlies bigger than a debate
about bison or Buffalo right bigger than
a debate about wolves it's just that
these animals step into this ongoing
dialogue about what is our relationship
with the natural world what is our
relationship with renewable resources
what is our relationship with rural
versus urban perspectives on how people
should be around wildlife
be impacted by wildlife and so it's just
it's just this through line of us trying
to sort out how to be like good
responsible stewards of the landscape
and that debate always centers around
these things like you could have a huge
argument like you be like and a lot of
tension with your spouse right and it
springs up in a debate about how best to
load the dishwasher or who is supposed
to pick up the kid from school right
there's always like it always finds a
place to live and right now we're like
the this argument about American
wildlife and what is our relationship to
it has found its place live right now
around large predators yeah and in
Scotland has found its way to live
around a feral goat on an island well in
that one case yeah all the traveling
that you do and all the hunting trips
you go on this has it gotten to a point
ever that it seems like a job yeah as
now that I have kids I it's changed a
little bit of you a little bit
differently but no I still I still
really love it and I'm able to know that
I'm able to know that I'm missing my
family while I'm out I'm able to know
that and feel that pain and still know
that I love what I do and I love talking
about the things that I talk about and
and you know and I view it like as a as
I'm sure you do like it's like this
tremendous privilege that you're able to
kind of grow up to have you know to have
this like intense interest in a subject
and it's intense interests and a
lifestyle and then have the ability to
like introduce people to all these
different ideas right so yeah I can have
those two things simultaneous the kind
of longing to be home more but enjoying
being out I think if it would if the
longing to be home more would override
that someday it might change it but
right now I'm you know I've just have
seen so many things that I'm happy to
have seen
and to think about a future of not
accumulating those experiences at the
rapid rate that I've accumulated them
yeah kind of bums me out a little bit
yeah you've lived a hundred lives you
know that the trip that you were talking
about when you were in South America and
the jungle and he came across those
pictographs what do you say how do you
call those things petroglyph petroglyphs
petroglyphs on the rocks that no one had
any idea who made yeah no one know why
they were just there you know no it's
not like a spot on a map that tourists
go to visit oh here's the petroglyphs no
they just they're there just there and
the hunters like yeah there they are the
ancient ones made these hey let's get
the fish no they really don't give a
shit but it's like you're seeing who
knows how old that is thousand years old
yeah but that's run into stuff like that
you know yeah beautiful experiences man
and then the you know to eat the way I
eat and live the way I eat it's it's
yeah I feel fortunate all the time well
I think you're very important because
there's a there's a real lack of
well-read articulate people that support
your position that are in the media I
mean you got a lot of these shows that
are on these the hunting networks that
they appeal to a very narrow bandwidth
and this narrow bandwidth is you know
just it's it's like your stereotypical
idea of what hunting is to a lot of
people so they'll flip through the
channels they'll watch that for a few
minutes you see someone hooting and
hollering after they shoot something and
they get this bad taste in their mouth
about it whereas I tell people all the
time if you really want to get an
understanding about what hunting is
about I always recommend your show
because your your narration and your
reverence for what you're doing and the
animals and just your your appreciation
for how cool the experience is and how
wild it is Ted don't you know for lack
of a better term to just to be out there
in nature and to be in the pursuit of
these things and then to take these
things these wild creatures and feed
your family and have it become a part of
your life and to sustain yourself with
it primarily it's a it's you you're
giving a perspective that I don't think
is available that I think is is really
important because it's just there's so
many people out that are out there that
are hunters that are smart well-read
people that feel frustrated it's like
god I wish everybody could see it the
way I see it yeah I think it's a porn to
point out that my love of hunting and
fishing and of living like a hands-on
relationship with the natural world
living in close proximity to wildlife
like my interest in that and desire to
do that predated by a long ways my
ability to talk about why I think that
those things are important it was there
it wasn't like I didn't grow up around
that and then later started
understanding the stuff and thinking
about it and decided like well
the path for me then considering what I
know now the path me then would do to
figure out hunting it was like hunting
was there I loved it
I love it today and I just had the
luxury through what I do for a living to
spend a lot of time thinking about what
why is that the case if this feels like
harmonious to you and you can kind of
like live in this and understand and see
how you fit into some greater you know
ecological picture right if it does feel
that way and that seems to be true how
is it that like why is that right and it
was pushing at those edges that I've
eventually developed a way in which I
talk about it
now I meet all kinds of people who live
that same lifestyle that I lived growing
up and when I talked to him a thing that
they appreciate is just that that
someone is articulating to them
something that they felt to be true and
knew to be true but just hadn't had the
time or you know didn't have the time or
ability to really go out and express it
so I just I would never want to act like
like I've invent like I sir
have not invented some way of thinking
about it like Aldo Leopold and you know
Theodore Roosevelt gifford pinchot
throughout history like Jim Harris and
Tom McGuane for contemporary writers
there's been a lot of people been saying
and talking about and experiencing the
outdoors in a way like I haven't like
invented some new thing I'm just sorry
I'm trying to I'm working toward like
articulate and expressing something that
has been in existence for a long time if
people see negative stereotypes when
they're on YouTube or see negative
stereotypes on certain television shows
a lot of that stuff is self feeding you
know I think a lot of stuff gets created
because it does have a shock value to it
and I would think that that - the camera
a lot of - the camera a lot of like
activities that people might feel are
abhorrent might not even be taking place
where there is a hamming it up for the
camera that goes on that's interesting
do you think that there's like a sort of
a stereotypical pattern that they feel
like they have to fall into so they fall
into it when the cameras on almost like
a DJ strip club voice yeah I think
there's I think that there's some of
them you know I mean there's some of
that I think there's kind there's also
lay people a thing that happens with
people who feel under attack um and and
in many ways you know hunters are under
attack in a lot of ways in a lot of
places and I think that there's a way
when you're you feel like you're being
attacked you feel like you're being
pigeon-holed stereotyped or response is
to cram it right back down someone
else's throat right right you're like
I'll show you and and there's definitely
that stuff for like you fall into this
us-against-them mm-hmm you know fuck
down like I'm gonna you know I'll show
them how we really are right and you get
into this like kind of dialog thing it's
a lot more paint it's like more painful
I think not maybe not more painful it's
definitely more hard to be like okay
let's let's talk about this for real
this is really something we need to
discuss let's like dig in and discuss it
and I think that a lot of people feel
like that
hunting feels like something that's
natural to them they like to do it and
they don't feel the need to take the
time to explain it and when
when pressed to explain it they maybe
kind of lash out you know yeah
it maybe lack the ability to look at it
from an outside perspective because it's
been a part of their life their whole
life and they they don't want to justify
it yeah it's I thought there's also the
weird thing that as much as you can
appreciate hunting and think of it as an
ethical way to acquire meat everybody
can't do it we've got too many people
it's untenable and that that's that's
how I mean there's no responsibility for
you to acknowledge that but it's it's
something that it gets brought up when
people talk about the the how ethical
acquisition of meat is really like
either hunting or you'd have to raise
something yourself and be absolutely
aware or get something from a farmer
who's you know completely ethical from
from birth to death and and you have to
be comfortable with that but the most
ethical in my opinion is a hunting but
then people always say yeah but
everybody can hunt ok but I can you know
if I can what do I do about the fact
that everybody can hunt well everyone
could come in it's moot points it's just
it doesn't matter I guess they're not
going to but no certainly everyone could
enter into the hunting game you know you
could come in and hunt it would just
mean that you had a much larger pool of
people after a limited resource and that
limited resource would be allocated in a
different way yeah you could have total
participation and it would just be that
every person's slice of the pie would be
much smaller but it's not like you know
when we look at when a state met like
looks at like what's a what what what's
a turkey harvest that our state could
support they break the state up into a
bunch of different units they look at
population trends and they determine
like how many turkey can we afford to
harvest without impacting the turkey
population right if everyone in the
state wanted a chance you still wind up
with the same number you didn't wind up
with the same number of turkeys
killed it would just be that you would
have less opportunity you have to wait
longer to get your turn so it's not that
everybody can't I don't think that but
it's not even really point cuz everybody
will not when I do the stuff that I do
like in in writing a wild game cookbook
I'm doing two things and writing a ball
game took but I'm doing the main thing
that I feel is the most important part
of my job or the most important part
what I am is I'm like having a
conversation with people who live this
lifestyle right like those are people
that I relate to I want to represent the
world in a way that like enhances their
lives provide education right and share
my experiences with an audience people
that I recommend is a tribe that I'm
part of which be like American hunters
and anglers and I'm presenting them like
and doing a cookbook I'm presenting them
like best practices how to sort of like
live the best version level of a wild
game lifestyle that they can here's a
way to think about an approach wild game
but but also the secondary part where
I'm doing is presenting a world to
people who might be unfamiliar with it
right and yes do I have the hope that
people will like say read this book and
then be like man I want to participate
in this lifestyle that could mean as
much as them walking down to the local
river in their City and flipping over
rocks and picking up crayfish but it is
introducing them bringing them into the
natural world and bringing them into
engagement with nature and I do view and
hope that that will happen will it
happen in some grand scale or will have
hundreds of millions of hunters in this
country no that's not going to happen
but I do think that it is important that
we do have more people involved we in
large measure we fund much of our
wildlife work and management from law
enforcement disease research on and on
we fund that stuff through hunting and
fishing licenses and through excise
taxes on sporting-goods equipment if the
more people that are engaged with this
activity I think the the better it winds
up being for American wildlife I agree
but the idea is that everyone can't do
it so the idea that your
that this is how you epically acquire
meat this is not a it's not a solution
for everyone no but everything I don't I
don't I don't say that this is the only
what I'm saying you dog I'm saying this
is one of the arguments that people make
if you say that you know hey I hunt for
my meat this is how I acquire me you
know well everybody can't do that
because there's not enough animals okay
that's true that's true
everybody can't do that if more even
more people got involved it's not it's
not a solution for the entire population
you can say well that's good the entire
population is not gonna do it anyway but
it's that gets into it just it's a
stranger there's just the giant number
of human beings that need to be fed yeah
there's almost no other solution than
the solution that we're doing right now
unless they come up with some sort of a
I mean they're lab-created meat or
whatever the fuck they're gonna come up
with next which they are do your lips
are curling as the involuntary I said
I'm pretty happy with I'm pretty happy
with my diet right now yeah and I'm uh
but I yeah I watch that kind of stuff
and I'm curious about it but I don't I
don't take it as a personal insult but I
stretch now if everybody switched the
lab-created meat but I still had the and
I still had the ability to continue
eating how I living how I live yes like
I don't view that as being a future
problem
Rocky Mountain Elk Federation has
reintroduced foundation you know what I
say Federation the foundation they've
they've introduced elk to a lot of
different places and made sustainable
populations that are now haunted and
this is this is a beautiful thing and
I'd hope that they continue to spread
and continue to do that do you think
it's possible that other game animals
could be reintroduced to places where
they would develop such a large
population that we could sustain maybe
even double the amount of hunters that
we have now is that possible well put it
this way um yes okay four stars yes you
know that you just pull up an article
about wolves united's tell like like
every article from mainstream news
sources to get that involves wolves
you'll you'll kind of detect the bias of
the end
you're writing it and they're saying how
wolves have only been recovered across
10% of their historic range elk that's
about the same for elk Yeah right
elk are missing from 80 plus percent of
their historic range in the lower 48
right but we have you know you know
various times might have a quarter
million of them living in Colorado or
you know some states got a hundred
thousand whatever yet now perhaps 20,000
living in Kentucky those were all gone
New Mexico at a point had zero right
Michigan zero Kentucky zero Pennsylvania
zero elk were gone from the unregulated
slaughter of the market hunting era when
people could shoot meat and sell it into
urban like meat markets right they
eliminated American wild game before we
figured out how to do without the word I
keep using all the time now which is
like regulated harvest regulated
management so all that stuff was gone
later like there were states where there
was no states where there was no deer
hunting at the time of European contact
you had turkeys in 39 states it got
whittled down to turkeys in nineteen
states you know have turkey hunting
seasons in 49 states we've done a
tremendous job of recovering wildlife
particular tremendous job because to
demonstrate like what happens to an
animal that hunters value and love and
are able to use as a renewable resource
as those species tend to really enjoy a
lot of protections and they thrive
because people are vested in their best
interest so yeah we've created turkey
hunting seasons in 30 states so yes you
can recover what you can like do things
of wildlife and like create resources
the fact that we now we used to argue
about what's gonna happen with deer are
we gonna like drive deer to extinction
in certain states or extra patient
certain states now our big argument is
what do we do is having so many deer
here it winds up being you come up
against social tolerances it's hard to
like you know when we fill in the map on
elk when the Rocky Mountain Elk
Foundation looks and filling in the map
on elk you got to sell people on the
idea that you're going to recover elk
and there's a lot of resistance
to recovering wildlife because a lot of
stuffs inconvenient to have around they
do a great job of brokering deals with
States and finding places where you know
a state maybe has a patch of habitat
they think could support the animals and
providing the expertise and financial
support and all that stuff like bring in
those things but generally you wind up
where because of settlement cities and
suburban areas we wind up with fewer and
fewer places where we can go and do it
so to really fill in the map on on
recovering elk across all that range
where they're supposed to be I don't
know that we'll get there but we've
gotten there and a lot of other stuff
and there's like you know you like the
wild sheep foundation right there try
and do the same thing with bighorn sheep
there it's not even social attitudes
there winds up being diseased like they
spent from domestic sheep yeah they're
their main like the main problem
preventing us from recovering bighorn
sheep is disease type types of pneumonia
they come from domestic sheep Wow
and people you know to go in and say to
someone who's running sheep on a
mountain domestic sheep on a mountain
and say hey no insult to you and no
insult to the you know your forebears
who've been sheep ranchers here for 120
years or whatever but we would like to
try to recover American wildlife and
bring Bighorns back to this mountain
range and that's gonna require you
moving these sheep out of the way it's
an insulting idea to people so there's a
blocker there and every animal has its
own type of problem turkeys it worked
because people don't get pissed about
hurt you know no they like having them
around
yeah and look at what's going on with
just allowing you know allowing bison to
walk out of Yellowstone National Park
it's that's been an issue for a quarter
century now people like I'm not
comfortable with you letting these big
ass things walk out of the park and roam
around because of disease grazing right
there's a people don't wanna be
inconvenience by wildlife these are
places where I would be like in that
area I would really like to see like one
of when a bison leaves the park he stops
being a wild animal and becomes
livestock what's going on with that
american savannah thing
what is that that that program the APR
yeah what are they calling that again
the American prairie reserve yeah what
is going on with that explain what the
fuck that is crazy I mean I know it's
just a long story too long yeah we're
gonna have what we're working with
having the it's too long we're working
with having the founder on our show yeah
in Prairie Reserve they're essentially
trying to do is reintroduce a bunch of
animals into a gigantic chunk of land
and they continue to buy up more of this
land and aren't they running block
management on this as well yes and
there's a lot of that there's a lot of
yeah there's a lot of suspicions and
controversy and it's like it's a it's an
idea that a lot of people are uneasy
with but the problem is not the problem
the thing is it's like people who are
you know they have a they have funding
and and have a thing where they're when
blame comes for sale they buy it and the
goal of buying up the land is to turn it
back into you know turn it back into
wildlife habitat for native wildlife and
why it's contrary it's the controversy
around it stems from the fact that some
people don't like to see areas that were
that supported like traditional
economies and rural areas like cattle
ranching and and to see these that to
see these areas returning to a wild
landscape is threatening to people from
the hunter perspective is they're
allowing there's a lot of places that
people used to be able to hunt and the
American prairie reserve is allowing
hunting to go on and people are coming
in saying well they need to make sure
they need to assure us that hunting will
be allowed here in perpetuity hmm and
because we're suspicious about what's
going on so there's a lot of like you
hear about it in so many ways but the
core mission is something that most
people when you look at the core mission
something that most people are gonna
look at and be pretty comfortable with
be like okay you're a guy or an
organization you have money and when a
ranch comes up for sale you buy it on
the open market the seller names is
price you pay the price is now your
and if you choose to not run cattle but
want to have bison roam around on it why
should I care right right but people do
care because they look at it as being
like a value judgment they look at it as
being like a value judgment about rural
economies and about agriculture Oh huh I
didn't think about that way there's a
thousand more aspects to this the
thousand where ax does theirs where like
it's a rich subject dude I would love to
get into it more about I'd uh next time
I come on okay next time it would take
like an hour to explain the situation
how what is their long-term plan like
how long is this going on for it's been
going on for quite a while right oh the
the long-term play is that over time you
would assemble APA chunk of the Great
Plains that is far bigger than
Yellowstone National Park that supports
a thriving population of bison wolves
grizzly bears you know in a in a
park-like setting but it doesn't come
without you know it doesn't come without
its own bits of controversy and yeah
again it's like it's the thing that
everyone has opinion about there was a
version they don't like to talk about
there was a version that's called the
buffalo Commons that happened long ago
where a there was a social scientist
named I think it was Frank popper by the
last name of popper and he was looking
at demographic patterns on the Great
Plains and he was observing the ways in
which the the great areas on the Great
Plains where the population was
shrinking okay so there's a lot of
counties on the Great Plains where
through various like long-term
agricultural trends and other issues
where the human population is rapidly
shrinking rapidly declining and this
sociologist brought up this idea that if
these trends continue you're gonna have
this rare case in which a landscape sort
of accidentally rewilding
okay hmm where everyone left which is
not a story we're familiar with when we
look at what happens so wildlands you
know across the world right the general
story is like people move in and
wildlife moves out so this idea that
became known like the Buffalo Commons
okay and that was and it just so happens
that that idea that this that that idea
kind of centered around this area on
Jordan Montana right because you have
large tracts of federally managed public
land up there
you had a lot of a grants land that
wasn't that expensive and people could
buy it and that was like the seed of the
idea I think that now that was such an
unpopular notion because it had to do
with like economic decay right and
shrinking towns and reduced resources
for public education all the kind of
stuff that comes from having an economy
that's not thriving
um but over time that like Buffalo
Commons idea kind of segue into this
American prairie reserve idea and it
happened to be sort of centered around
the same chunk of land um bill Kittredge
a Western writer who deals a lot of
landscape and environmental issues was
talking about in the wake of the buffalo
Commons idea in poppers work was talking
about going to Jordan Montana and
talking about the buffalo Commons is a
great way to get your ass kicked because
it's this idea like if if culturally we
like the agricultural producers and
ranchers were celebrated and they've
made a civilization out of the
wilderness and they brought in animals
and created economies and created
communities and for someone to now say
you know thanks but no thanks bro
we'd rather go back and and eliminate
your presence on this landscape and we
don't in fact value what you did and
we're gonna try as hard as we can to
undo what you did because we now view it
as that you did though your people did
the wrong thing we're gonna crack that
wrong and some like it's an it's some
people it's like this insulting idea
although to a lot of other people they
celebrate it because they're like hey if
it's for sale and I buy it it's mine I
could see it from both perspectives sure
man it's it's it's very much like the
hunting thing if you're a part of it you
have a deep history in it you
understand that you know your
perspective of ranching is from a
rancher whereas people in the outside
conveniently can be ignorant about it
and go fuck those ranchers I want to see
the Buffalo yeah
in my perspective on wildlife has been
that's a thing that you it's a thing
that you care about you work to conserve
you want to have it on the landscape and
you also eat a lot of it that's a
four-night yeah it is I'm glad that you
can't sell wild game I'm glad that mark
and hunting is not a thing however I
would really love it if there was a
restaurant where you could go where you
could buy like really well-prepared wild
game dishes like a really well-prepared
bear really well all paired mountain
lion well prepared you know fill in the
blank with the animal I just think that
would be a fascinating place to eat you
know and maybe maybe if they could do
something like that it wouldn't be that
you could actually sell them meat I mean
there have to be some weird work around
you know it'd have to be like would
someone have to get to come to one of my
dinner parties I would happen well
that's fine but I mean but I would like
it if there was a place where the
general public could participate in it I
think they'd get a better understanding
you know a guy I put up these posts all
the time of elk that I cook and people
like goddamn I want to eat some of that
I eat that how do you eat that you gotta
go get one of them you know I mean it's
the only way you can eat that yeah well
you can buy come to my house yeah you
can go and buy the farm-raised version
but then yeah that's one yeah good luck
getting a farm raised blueberry black
bear yeah well no not that case but like
ya know you can buy but then it's that's
a whole er conversation on the captive
surrett industry but yeah you can buy
you can buy elk that are raised in a in
a ranch environment right yeah I mean as
long as you're getting it from New
Zealand you're not dealing with CWD and
a lot of the other issues that they're
dealing with in America right well yeah
but they're not I mean they're you know
those places are tested and and one
herds that have CWD in them are
destroyed right yeah yeah yeah but the
well the whole New Zealand thing that
was an interesting thing you brought up
on your podcast recently how New Zealand
there's been talks about actual
eradication and one of the arguments
that hunters always use is hey we're
controlling the population this is a
good service that we're providing yeah
and then the government comes along and
says well how about we take care of that
and everybody say hey hey well not so
fast yeah it's uh that that takes place
in Australia and New Zealand where they
have these like like thriving very
robust populations of non native
wildlife and you know the government has
all does has always and does now do a
lot of culling of these animals they
don't have predators right they have
like extremely like they're very fecund
extremely high reproductive rates and
they the government has actively engaged
you know around-the-clock Gunung
wildlife from helicopters just like just
letting it run shoot and leave it to rot
because you have to you because they're
trying to let you know you have to you
but they do that because they're trying
to you know protect certain ecosystems
and and keep like a lot of you know
native plant species from going to
extinct and fragile environments and all
kinds of reasons because there's no
death right there's no there's no
predator there's no predator control on
which is huge and then in a lot of
places is completely inadequate amount
of hunting and the thing that hundreds
of our has been able to say in Australia
New Zealand is they've been in a little
- with an in a culture where like and
particularly in Australia like a culture
that seems to be not as friendly toward
hunters as they are in America your ever
say well you know we're participating in
wildlife control and then later when
people come up and they talk about well
you know what we're gonna get serious
about this and we're gonna really
actively with the goal of like totally
eliminating these species people are
justifiably made uneasy about it because
it's it's the thing that they've come to
appreciate and rely on and a resource
that they want to use and now they're
like whoa wait a minute
Oh kill them all I do like them being
here and it was a putting this weird
like no one's that putting you in a in a
weird rhetorical position but I
understand where they're coming from
because if um if you could live there
and you could agree that we're gonna
have some small number of them on the
landscape and we're gonna use those and
we're gonna hunt those and eat those
I also if someone said hey they're gone
now I would be bummed yeah I hunt
turkeys at UPS an earlier we had turkeys
in 39 states at the time of European
contact we have turkeys in 49 states now
I hunt turkeys in a lot of those 10
states that didn't historically have
turkeys and that do now and I generally
have a perspective of trying to preserve
native wildlife and trying to control
non-natives because I don't want to wind
up with sort of a just like monolithic
wildlife pattern or these same super
resilient adaptive species such as
Canada geese and rats and white-tailed
deer take over the entire country and
pigs yeah so you like like yes I want
like the variety so I'm generally like
antagonistic toward non-natives but if
someone came and said okay you know what
we're gonna actually go in and kill off
all the turkeys in those ten states that
historically didn't have turkeys I would
say like cow you know really because
I've kind of grown to really like those
turkeys and they're not really causing a
problem right and I think that some
people you know if you New Zeeland
hunter and Australian hunter I don't
think anyone's arguing there should be
no control but I think that there's like
let's find a balance I think we can find
a balance where there's some
availability animals on the landscape
since they've been here since the
beginning of our you know experience on
this continent if there's some
availability of animals that's fine like
a reasonable compromise here well that
was one of the discussions as well about
Hawaii right like and some of the
Hawaiian Islands eradicating the pigs
and then the Hawaiians were saying well
they've been here as long as us yeah
we've both been here that our ancestors
that have been here 1,100 years
they brought the pig with them how am i
a Native Hawaiian and the pig has to go
right there's like maybe you people
ought to go I always like again man I
always instinctively um when I hear
stuff I instinctively lean in on I
instinctively lean in from the
perspective of you know I instinctively
lean in from the perspective of the
hunter and angler you know and like and
and and I love all these little debates
and I think that they're all really
helpful and interesting but um no I feel
like I can recognize their pain and that
can also look far away
and laugh at the absurdity of it like I
even had a guy write me from Australia
and say this is a real bummer because it
exposes us to the thing where we got to
say like yeah you know what I wasn't
really just doing it because I'm trying
to help the ecosystem by eliminating
non-natives I actually like having some
around and now I just got to come out
and say that and that's a bummer
we really do wish there was some sort of
a restaurant I think that would be a
great place for people to get a
perspective there's no way to do that
though huh no but I know there's not
well I mean not for all the things that
you're talking about no and I don't and
I don't look to that there is talk of a
lot of people are looking to are pushing
for this idea that in areas that have
too many whitetail deer there's people
who are really pushing to reopen up the
sale of wild harvested deer as a
solution to deer overpopulation but I'm
but for me from the perspective from
from my perspective and from the damage
that was caused by unregulated wildlife
slaughter
I just I'm very very uneasy with it and
I do not picture myself ever coming
around and supported the idea that we
would start marketing that we would
start marketing wild servants no I agree
and I think that just the sheer
possibility of fuckery and people
shooting them and poaching them and
selling them and it's just yeah and and
just it's it would increase the
commodification of wildlife yeah and and
that's something that and that's
something that um also just
uncomfortable with in general is the
commodification wildlife and I think
about resource availability for hunters
and I think that a lot of people who
enjoy access to certain areas now to go
hunting to like pump for themselves and
their family um that the minute you made
it be that those deer had a dollar value
attached to them there would be a lot
less opportunity for people who choose
to hunt to feed themselves because it
was all assembiy like
why would I let you come in or allow you
to come in and use a resource when I'm
just gonna do my best now to collect it
up and sell it yeah and so again for
aesthetic reasons for what it would mean
for hunters for our perception of our
you know relationship with our resources
I I'm extremely uncomfortable with it
though I see keep I it's an idea that
keeps popping up because we have in some
areas and I usually I hate to say that
I'd hate table well there's too many
deer there's too much this too much that
because like by whose measurement but in
some areas we really do especially you
start getting into issues like Lyme
disease prevalence and ticks and and
yeah and starvation and then just the
possibility of other disease outbreaks
and the spread of certain wildlife
diseases there's some areas it's like a
by any reasonable measurement we have
too many deer yeah well look it's
already 1:00 o'clock know how crazy is
that
time flies in this room your your
podcast is awesome it really is I'm glad
to talk to you too doing it yeah and
every chance I get I point to it I
appreciate it I really do appreciate
that you do it because I think it's it's
my favorite podcast to recommend to
people that want if I want them to get
an understanding of hunting without you
know even watching it just listening to
you talk because here's you have so many
guests on where you know you might not
even be talking about hunting you might
be talking about biology might be
talking about history you know it's it's
just a great podcast and you're a great
guy for the job you play a very
important part out there I really really
believe that thank you I appreciate and
now and I'm glad you talked me into
doing it it's been in terms of all the
things I do the TV writing it's the
thing that I enjoy doing it the most
there's a lot of things I enjoy having
done it more right but the thing that I
enjoy actually doing it I'm decided like
a smile on my face doing it well you're
such a great talker I mean remember the
first time you did my podcast
even before meat-eater when you were
just coming off with a wild within what
is it was that what it's called yeah and
I
I remember thinking why does this guy
have a fucking podcast and this was like
how many years ago seven years ago
something like that you know the first
time I ever heard the word podcast this
is embarrassing the first time I ever
heard the word podcast was Helen Cho
telling me that I should go on Joe
Rogan's podcast and I didn't know what
it meant
that's how early you were into the show
we're into this shit before I ever heard
the word Wow that's crazy
um I wanna kind of double background and
plug my book yeah please do okay so it's
called the meter fishing game cookbook
recipes and techniques for every hunter
and angler got a picture that Jami BAM
there it is I say one last quick thing
about it it releases right now releases
this week on November 20 but it's
available for pre-order everywhere and
it's um broken into a bunch of chapters
where it has big game small fir'd game
like rabbits hares squirrels upland
birds waterfowl a freshwater fish
saltwater fish shellfish and crustaceans
reptiles and amphibians all your
bullfrog stuff is in there and you want
to talk about a species it's spreading
all across the country bullfrogs yeah
really yeah I've hunted a lot of
bullfrogs in places where they're very
unwelcome what do you hunt them with a
variety of ways mostly frog gig I don't
care where you live like there's a lot
of people who live in a city like dude
I'd love to go out and get some wild
game I can't get it elk right how do I
do that you could be out gigging frogs
at night no one would even know frog
gigging crayfish crab and we talked
about all this kind of stuff in the book
so all it and it explains everything
from how to like break down and process
and freeze stuff and then for everything
there are many recipes and the recipes
walk you through how to use the entire
thing so you from for your white-tailed
deer everything from the tongue to the
rear shank how like specific recipes on
how to do it and also just general best
practices and guidelines around how to
handle the ingredients and then all the
stuff around all the substitutions so
there's no such thing as a can elkhart
recipe right it's like how to like
handle game hearts whether it's mule
deer whitetail whatever like how to
approach a heart and it's in an attitude
toward wild game
that is not that's cut specific not
species specific and with fish to like I
don't I'm not carnivals daddy like
though this is a walleye recipe here
this is a bluegill recipe but how to
handle like varieties of freshwater fish
and like what kind of what kind of
recipes you can use that are
interchangeable depending on where you
live and what you use and all and
includes all that and then real pretty
pictures beautiful you can see Yanis boo
tell us how to do the tail skinning
method on squirrel and I don't care
where you live you damn sure live near
squirrels people are very uncomfortable
squirrel eating not me on you know in
the end the guy that got the disease
means squirrel brains yeah nothing to do
with squirrel brains oh the article I
don't yeah yeah what what did he
everybody sent me that article yeah
there's no demonstrable correlations
like 30 P
you know wind up with that form of crud
spelled young 30 Americans wind up with
it it just happens me that this dude
sometime in his past its in some sort
it's a prion or prion yeah beyond its
estate yes thing that happens of people
but but it was the the correlation
between his diet and what happened to
him was implied implied put possible if
you go read up on it it now seems like
like people are really saying like
there's no there's no obvious
relationship here no obvious
relationship between eating squirrel
brains and getting a prion disease yeah
there's plenty of people that get the
same thing that haven't been eating
squirrel brains right so just they were
just looking at the unusual aspects of
his diet and you're pointing to that
it's not that scientific yeah and the
the article got a lot more love when it
was that some squirrel hunter died from
eating squirrel brains right than it did
when the later subsequent pieces came
out wherever he's like whoa yeah we
don't really like you know squirrels are
cute yeah um I ate some squirrel with
you just thing you've served me now very
good there's not a person in the world
you know what we have in the book in the
cookbook is we have on how to do buffalo
buffalo wings hot wings
how to do hot legs with squirrels yeah
we're eating at the are night really
yeah so it's just like you're making
rules on shooting squirrels they vary
state by state yeah so if you're in New
York you know you have a season you know
squirrel season in most states so it's
either it's either one of the other way
either there's a season and a bag limit
or they're treated as a non-game species
so here in California there's a squirrel
season there's a bag of them I think
it's for a day for for squirrels a day
when's the season you know what seasons
usually run from sometime in August in
September into winter into January
February so where I grew up September
fifties September 8th to January 27th
archery falconry only cheese's kraso
archery and falconry so August 4 for
archery and Falcon II falconry Falcon
then you got to go to the tree squirrels
own map right but in your state jack
rabbits are open for instance your say
Jack Rabbit sir manages non-gaming
there's no bag limit and open year-round
snows like cottontails snowshoes have
different management in a lot of states
pine squirrels or red squirrels which
aren't commonly hunted but they're more
regarded as like things that get into
people's houses but they're not hunted
for meat they be listed as the non-game
species but fox girls and grey squirrels
because game species so in New York I
think the bag limit when I was living
there was six per day a possession limit
of two bag limits did you shoot any
squirrels in Brooklyn need them no no
one there I caught some there and ate
them but I would hunt out of the city at
my buddy's farm and some other places so
where I was born in Michigan the
squirrel season was September 15th and
it ran into the end of January 5
squirrels a day possession limit of two
bag limits the state I live in now trees
squirrels as non-game species so there's
no closed season no bag limit because
there's not really a there's not a
they're not widely distributed and
they're not commonly hunted all right
but yeah most places they have them and
they're managed and you go out and buy
two small game license for 12 bucks or
whatever and get your hunter safety get
your
422 or a shotgun and you can become a
squirrel man or a squirrel lady like
your buddy Kevin Murphy this is one of
my favorite guys on your podcast he's a
squirrel man this guy blows a horn in
the woods before every hunt to alert the
animals that he's coming yeah blow yeah
he carries a cow horn around they call I
think that I think um it's in a shofar
right is that right for you know when
you blow the shofar and like a Jewish in
a synagogue is that what it is
Thanks called a shofar like you blow the
ram's they blow a ram's horn it's not
it's not a cow yeah it's not a cow horn
but Saran horn you know the end of um
you know in the end of no country for
old men yeah have we talked with us
before no he talks about his father
riding out ahead of him with a horn of
fire in the end when he relates the
dream it's in the book and it's in the
movie murder the time you Lee Jones
character is describing a dream in which
they're riding through a snowstorm and
his father rides ahead with a horn of
fire and I was wondering how many people
heard that and had no idea what he was
talking about but what a common practice
used to be is you take a horn buffalo
horn cow horn and it's hollow because it
grows off a protrusion of the skull
called the horn core and you pop the
horn off in its hollow and what people
would do is when you left your campfire
in the morning you would fill that horn
with embers and cap it but there'd be a
little pin hole in it just to let a
little bit of air in there so it could
continue to smolder and you carry that
horn all day full of embers and at night
to start a new fire you would dump the
horn out and rekindle your fire so when
he talks about his father riding out
ahead of him with a horn of fire what
that's meant to say is that he knew his
father would be waiting out of head of
him with a fire burning whoa yeah but
Kevin bravery just blows it less
squirrels know he's coming thanks for
coming man
always good to talk to you we keep
saying we got to organize another hunt
yeah I hope so you have to do something
call Bryan Callen
I talked to him recently we'll make it
happen he's one of the funnier guys on
Instagram man he's one of the funnier
guys alive bye everybody
[Music]
[Applause]